EVERYONE TO THE APRIL 20
SEVENTH TWENTY TWENTY TWO
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MEETING.
I&apos;M CANDACE CHAIRPERSON OF THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS, THE
NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
TONIGHT BY JOHN BARRETT.
THEN THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR
REMOTELY.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE A
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL 877 EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE THREE
EIGHT ONE SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE
ZERO ZERO SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
A CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD.
WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL FIVE
AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE BOARD
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN APPEAL
TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT ON A
TIMELY BASIS.
WE HAVE RULE CALLED I CAME HERE
MCDANIEL HERE DAVE DAVE ALREADY
CHRIS MADIGAN HERE.
JULIA GOODE HERE.
&gt;&gt; CHRIS FARLEY HERE.
TODD GRANTH HERE.
&gt;&gt; ELIZABETH NELSON WE HAVE A
QUORUM APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
I WILL NOTE QUICKLY THAT
PETITION QUBA TWENTY TWO YEA
TWENTY TWO DASH TO ZERO ZERO
TWO AT TWELVE ELEVEN WHITE
STREET HAS WITHDRAWN THEIR
PETITION SO BECAUSE IT WAS
PUBLIC NOTICE WE WILL TAKE ANY
PUBLIC COMMENT ON THAT PETITION
BUT UNDERSTAND THAT THE BOARD
WON&apos;T BE DISCUSSING THAT APPEAL
AT ALL OR MAKING ANY DECISIONS
ON IT BECAUSE IT&apos;S BEEN
WITHDRAWN.
SO OTHER THAN THAT ARE THERE
ANY QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS ON
THE AGENDA?
IT&apos;S NOT TO HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA.
CHRIS, THANK YOU.
SUPPORT FOR MIKE ALL IN FAVOR.
&gt;&gt; I OPPOSED MOVING ON TO
APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM THE MARCH.
TWENTY THIRD TWENTY TWENTY TWO
ZEBA MEETING ARE THERE ANY
QUESTIONS, COMMENTS,
CORRECTIONS ANNOUNCEMENT IF NOT
DRIVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
MINUTES FROM OUR MARCH MEETING
FROM MY SUPPORT FROM THANK YOU
ALL IN FAVOR.
&gt;&gt; I OPPOSED THE MINUTES OUR
APPROVED MOVING ON TO PUBLIC
HEARINGS WE HAVE PETITIONED CBA
TWENTY TWO DASH TWO ZERO ZERO
FIVE TWENTY TWO EIGHTY RECORD
JOHN DO WE WANT TO WAIT ONE
MORE MINUTE AND OR LET&apos;S TALK
SLOW.
OKAY IT&apos;S BEEN FIVE MINUTES.
ALL RIGHT.
I&apos;M JOHN BARRETT ZONING
COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY
VANOVER THE FIRST PETITION THIS
EVENING IS ZIBA TWENTY TWO DASH
TWENTY FIVE.
THE ADDRESS IS TWENTY TWO
EIGHTY CHAUCER CAUGHT FRANK AND
SARAH RAMPTON PROPERTY OWNERS
ARE SEEKING VARIANCE FROM TABLE
FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN DASH ONE
SINGLE FAMILY DISTRICT
DIMENSIONS TO COMPLETE
CONSTRUCTION ON A SCREEN PORCH
AT THE REAR OF THE EXISTING
HOME.
THE REAR YARD SETBACK IS THIRTY
FEET AND THE OWNERS ARE
PROPOSING THE SCREEN PORCH TO
BE TWENTY SIX FEET FROM THE
REAR FLAT LINE.
THE PROPERTY IS ZONED R ONE C
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
AT THE END OF CHAUCER DRIVE
SOUTH OF CYL CHURCH ROAD IN THE
LATIN NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE HOME IS BUILT IN 1986 AND
IS APPROXIMATELY ONE THOUSAND
NINE HUNDRED TWENTY THREE
SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
THE OWNER IS PROPOSING TO
FINISH CONSTRUCTION OF A TWENTY
TWENTY ONE FOOT WIDE BY NINE
FEET SIX DEEP SCREEN PORCH
ATTACHED TO THE REAR OF THE
HOME.
THE CONSTRUCTION IS STARTED
PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF A
BUILDING PERMIT.
THE PROJECT WAS ISSUED A STOP
WORK ORDER BY THE BUILDING
DEPARTMENT IN AUGUST OF TWENTY
TWENTY ONE A PERMIT BUILDING
TWENTY ONE DASH TWO ZERO FIVE
NINE HAS BEEN APPLIED FOR AND
IS CURRENTLY ON THE SCREEN AND
FOUR WHICH IS TO BE FINISHED ON
THE EXISTING TO BE FINISHED ON
THE EXISTING DECK AND WILL BE
SCREENED IN AND USED AS
UNCONDITIONED SPACE
.
TRY SCREENS HERE THIS SHERENE
KERSTING CAN YOU HEAR ME OR YES
I JUST I JUST SENT YOU AS THE
CO-HOST AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; DID YOU TRY IT ONE MORE TIME
?
IF NOT I&apos;LL BE HAPPY TO.
&gt;&gt; SURE IT&apos;S NOT ACCEPTING MY
PASSWORD FAZIL I&apos;LL JOIN.
I HAD TROUBLE A COUPLE OF TIMES
THIS WEEK GETTING INTO THE
CITIES I JUST STARTED QUITE IT
WASN&apos;T THE FAULT FOR MY HANDS.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF ANYBODY ELSE
HAD A TROUBLE.
I HAD A COUPLE OF TIMES YOU
TRIED TO ATTEMPT TO READ SOME
OF THE ATTACHMENTS HAD TO WAIT
WEEK NOW AND WRITE AGAIN SOME
THE FAULT WAS NOT AT MY END AS
FAR AS I COULD TELL.
SO KRISTEN JUST IT&apos;S NOT
ACCEPTING THE PASSWORD HERE BUT
YOU&apos;RE YOU&apos;RE ALREADY IN THE
MEETING, CORRECT?
&gt;&gt; I THOUGHT I WAS.
YEAH.
&gt;&gt; SEE YOU IN HERE.
SO IT&apos;S ASKING YOU FOR A
PASSWORD TO SHARE YOUR SCREEN.
YEAH.
WELL IS IT FINE WITH YOU IF I
SHARE MY SCREEN WITH THE
POWERPOINT?
&gt;&gt; YEAH THAT&apos;S YEAH I GUESS I
GUESS SO HUH.
DO YOU KNOW HOW TO DO THIS.
I WAS WORKING BEFORE WE DO THAT
I&apos;LL TAKE YOU OUT OF THE
MEETING AND THEN PUT YOU BACK
ON OK
SO SORRY EVERYONE BEAR
WITH US FOR JUST A MOMENT.
I&apos;M HAVING SOME TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTIES WITH ZOOM
OK IT&apos;S
THERE&apos;S THE OPTION I THERE WE
GO AND EVERYONE SEE THAT NOW.
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT GOOD.
&gt;&gt; KIRSTEN, ARE YOU ABLE TO SEE
THAT?
YES LOOKS PERFECT.
&gt;&gt; OK GOOD.
ALL RIGHT SORRY ABOUT THAT
EVERYBODY BUT WE&apos;RE UP AND
RUNNING THE FIRST SLIDE IS THE
ZONING MAP.
YOU SEE THE HIGHLIGHTED PARCEL
AND YELLOW THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
IN THE CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN
AND AS I SAID AT THE END
OF CHAUCER COURT AND IT&apos;S JUST
WEST OF STYLE CHURCH ROAD.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOCATION
MAP SHOWING SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTO
OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY.
&gt;&gt; THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AS YOU SEE SHOWING
THAT&apos;S TWENTY THE PROPOSED NEW
SCREENED IN PORCH IS GOING TO
BE TWENTY SIX FEET FROM THAT
REAR LINE AT ITS CLOSEST POINT
THIS IS THE APPLICATION THAT
WAS R DIAGRAM THAT WAS
SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION
IF THE OWNER WANTS TO COMMENT
ON THAT, I WILL BRING IT BACK
WHEN HE CAN.
HE CAN COME OUT OF THIS
LANDSCAPING PROPOSED SCREEN.
YOU SEE WHERE HE&apos;S FROM THE
PREVIOUS MONTH WHEN THE
PREVIOUS APPLICATION WAS HEARD
IN FEBRUARY, THE PROPOSED PORCH
IS GOING TO BE MOVED BACK AND
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE IN LINE WITH
THE EXISTING DECK AND YOU CAN
SEE THAT ON THIS SCREEN.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK AT THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE AND THIS
IS THE CURRENT STATE OF THE
CONSTRUCTION AS IT EXISTS AND
THEN THIS IS THE CLOSE, CLOSE
CLOSING PHOTO YOU SEE WHERE THE
EXISTING FOOTING IS IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE DECK AND
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE MOVED BACK TO
THAT FOR THE THE DECK PORTION
IN THE FAR BACKGROUND AND
THAT&apos;S WHAT WAS SHOWN ON THAT
PREVIOUS SLIDE.
THIS IS ANOTHER ANGLE
OF SHOWING THE DECK AND ITS
RELATIONSHIP TO WHERE THE
PROPOSED SUNROOM IS GOING TO
GO.
IT&apos;S GOING TO IF YOU JUST
IMAGINE IT&apos;S GOING TO GO
STRAIGHT UP FROM THE EXISTING
DEBT.
JUST ANOTHER PHOTO OF THE
CURRENT CONDITIONS AND THAT&apos;S
THE BUDDING PROPERTY OWNER.
THAT IS THE END OF MY
PRESENTATION.
I WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU MAY HAVE AT THIS TIME.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS, DAVE?
SO JOHN, IT LOOKS LIKE I KNOW
THIS CAME BEFORE US BEFORE IT
LOOKS LIKE THEY&apos;RE PROPOSING
NOW THE SCREENED PORCH JUST TO
COME IS FAR OUT IS THE EXISTING
DECK?
THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
IF JUST A QUESTION WOULD THEY
IF THEY DO THAT IS THE ENCLOSED
SCREENED IN PORCH IF WE DO AND
GIVE THEM THAT VARIANCE AND
THEY KEEP THIS EXTENDED ROOF AS
LONG AS THEY DON&apos;T CLOSE IT IN,
IS THAT WOULD THAT BE OR IS
THAT THE ROOF LINE WE&apos;LL HAVE
TO MEET THE VARIANCE SO THE
ROOF LINE CANNOT GO INTO THE
SET BACK?
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S CORRECT BECAUSE
OF THE EXTENSION OF THE
EXISTING HOME SAME ROOF LINE
THE HOME THAT YOU SAW THE
PREVIOUS APPLICATION THAT WAS
HEARD IN FEBRUARY WAS SEEKING A
NINE FOOT VARIANCE.
RIGHT.
AND THIS ONE&apos;S FOUR FEET SO
THEY ARE PROPOSING TO MOVE IT
BACK FIVE FEET AND THAT&apos;S IN
LINE WITH THAT SECOND PORTION
THE FARTHER BACKGROUND OF THE
DECK RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; IN FACT, IT LOOKS LIKE ON
THE FURTHEST THE CLOSEST TO US
IN THE PICTURE THEY WOULD
ACTUALLY BE AT THE SETBACK LINE
AT THE CORNER OF THE HOUSE AND
THEN IT WOULD GO WHERE IT MEETS
THE DECK IS WHERE THEY NEED THE
VARIANCE IT&apos;S GOING TO BECAUSE
OF THE ONE I UNDERSTAND IT&apos;S
GOING TO BE IN LINE WITH THIS
THIS I UNDERSTAND.
&gt;&gt; BUT IF YOU LOOK AT FIGURE
NUMBER ONE, IF YOU GO BACK
I
GUESS MAYBE OR DO WE NOT HAVE
THAT IN OUR RIGHT THERE?
SO DO YOU SEE WHAT I&apos;M SAYING?
IT&apos;S THE IT LOOKS LIKE THE SET
BACK AT THE CORNER THERE THAT
EXTENDS OUT FROM THAT RIGHT
HAND SIDE OF THE HOUSE RIGHT
HERE IS AT THIS YES.
IS AT THE SET BACK LINE.
&gt;&gt; YES.
I BELIEVE THERE IS A PORTION
OF IT THAT&apos;S GOING TO MEET THIS
UP BACK OK.
AND JUST REMEMBER THAT THESE
GUTTERS AND OVERHANGS ARE
ALLOWED TO PROJECT UP TO TWO
FEET INTO IT.
&gt;&gt; GOT YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR MR
OR
ANY OTHER CANDIDATE FOR BECAUSE
THERE WAS A HEARING FEBRUARY IS
THERE ANYTHING ELSE THAT ANY
OTHER DISCUSSION THAT HAPPENED
OR THAT IS THAT BASICALLY THE
END OF IT?
THIS IS WHAT THEY PROPOSE OR
THEY PROPOSED WHAT EXISTS AND
IT WAS DENIED, CORRECT?
CORRECT.
UM, SO THE THE CURRENT REQUEST
IS FOUR FEET OVER AND COULD YOU
TELL ME HOW WHAT THE DEPTH
OF THE DECK WILL BE LIKE?
I&apos;M TRYING TO IF THEY DIDN&apos;T
HAVE THE FOUR FEET IS THERE
STILL A DECK?
IS IT ONLY FIVE FEET?
WELL, THE DECK AND WELL THE
POURING RAIN.
YEAH.
SO THE PORCH WILL BE FOUR FEET
INTO THE REAR OF IT AND AND BUT
WHAT IS IT IN TOTAL LIKE IF WE
DON&apos;T GET THE VARIANCE DOES
THAT MEAN THEY&apos;VE ONLY GOT TWO
FEET TO DO A PORCH OR FIVE AND
A HALF RIGHT.
OH OK YEAH OK THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN
ALL RIGHT IT&apos;S THE PETITIONERS
HERE PLEASE COME FORWARD SIGN
IN STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD YOU&apos;LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES
.
MY NAME IS SARAH RAMPTON
WOODROSE YOU&apos;RE ABOUT OH TWENTY
TWO EIGHTY CHAUCER SO HOPEFULLY
THIS TIME WE&apos;RE ASKING FOR A
SMALLER ASK AND THAT WE&apos;RE
BRINGING THIS SPEED PUSH BACK
FIVE FEET INCLUDING ROOF LINE
WHICH IS A THIRD LESS THAN WHAT
WE HAD WE ASK IN FEBRUARY IT&apos;LL
MATCH WITH THE EXISTING DESK
DECK AND THE LEFT SIDE OF THE
PORCH WON&apos;T EVEN NEED A
VARIANCE BECAUSE AS YOU
MENTIONED DAVID&apos;S THIRTY FEET
AND THE RIGHT SIDE JUST NEEDS A
FOUR FOOT.
&gt;&gt; ANY QUESTIONS ANY QUESTIONS
FOR THE PETITIONER AND THE
DRAINAGE WE FIXED?
IT&apos;S GOING TO HAVE A DRY BED ON
ONE SIDE AND A DRY CREEK THE
OTHER DECLARED BERM.
SO WE IMPROVE THE LAND A LOT
.
NO QUESTIONS.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
IF THERE&apos;S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO COMMENT ON
THIS PETITION, PLEASE COME
FORWARD NOW IF YOU ARE
ACCESSING THE MEETING REMOTELY,
PLEASE CALL IN OR IF YOU&apos;VE
ALREADY CALLED IN OR ACCESSING
VIA THE WEB LINK PLEASE BUSTAN
OR RAISE YOUR HAND.
STAFF WILL CALL YOU
THERE ARE
NO CALLERS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU KRISTEN.
I WILL NOTE THAT WE DID RECEIVE
WRITTEN CORRESPONDENCE FROM
JACK JORDAN AT TWENTY TWO
NINETY TRUSTOR IN SUPPORT
OF THE REQUEST AND I BELIEVE
THERE WAS ONE MORE WAS ONE MORE
THING.
YES FROM ANNA AND GORDON BEAMAN
AT TWENTY TWO NINETY FIVE
RECORD ALSO IN SUPPORT SO WITH
THAT WE&apos;RE CLOSING A PUBLIC
HEARING AND WE&apos;RE IN DISCUSSION
CHRIS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I&apos;M I&apos;M I DON&apos;T LIKE
BEING IN THE POSITION WHERE YOU
HAVE TO PINCH SOMEONE BUT I
THINK A PETITIONER HAS DONE AN
ADMIRABLE JOB OF ABIDING BY
WHAT THE ZONING REQUIREMENTS
ARE HERE AND I&apos;M GOING TO
SUPPORT THIS DAY.
YEAH I WAS ONE OF THE PEOPLE
THAT OPPOSED IT LAST TIME.
IT IS BEING TOO MUCH OF AN ASK
AND ONE OF OUR STANDARDS IS TO
BE THE MINIMUM NECESSARY AND I
NOTE THAT AT ONE END OF THIS
ENCLOSED SCREENED IN PORCH IT
ACTUALLY MEETS THE SETBACK
REQUIREMENT IS THE ONLY OTHER
AT THE OTHER END THAT IT NEEDS
A LITTLE BIT OF A VARIANCE.
I THINK THIS IS THE MINIMUM
REQUIRED OR MINIMUM NECESSARY.
YOU KNOW, THEY&apos;VE REALLY SCALED
IT BACK SO I&apos;M GOING TO BE
SUPPORTING YOU.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION, CHRIS?
SO I I SEE THIS I SEE THIS
VARIANCE IS FAILING TO MEET
STANDARD C D
AND POTENTIALLY E
THIS SEEMS TO SELF
CREATED ISSUE.
I DON&apos;T THINK THAT THE PROPERTY
ITSELF PRESENTS ISSUES THAT ARE
UNIQUE TO THE PROPERTY AND
THOUGH I DO APPLY IT YOU REDUCE
YOUR REQUEST.
I THINK THAT&apos;S IMPORTANT.
I ALSO DON&apos;T THINK THAT IT
WOULD DO SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE TO
NEARBY OR OTHER PROPERTIES IN
THE CITY.
I THINK IT WOULD GRANT RIGHTS
TO BASICALLY DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS
THAT ARE GRANTED TO THOSE IN
ITS ZONING DISTRICT BY ALLOWING
A COVERED SPACE IN A IN A SET
BACK THAT THAT APPLIES TO OTHER
LOTS WITH WITH BASICALLY
SIMILAR DEVELOPMENT ISSUES.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M OPPOSED TO GRANTING
THE VARIANCE.
THANK YOU, CHRIS.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION?
WE&apos;RE READY.
JULIA SORRY.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M KIND OF ON THE FENCE AND
PART OF IT IS I DO FEEL THAT IT
IS A LITTLE UNIQUE THAT LIKE
ONE CORNER THE DECK WORKS.
IT IS NOT CAUGHT IN THE
BACKYARD.
YOU KNOW ALSO THAT IF WE DID
GRANT THEY COULD HAVE PART
OF THE DECK IN BUT THEN THEY&apos;D
HAVE TO HAVE A DECK GET MUCH
SMALLER THERE AND IT IS ONE
OF THESE ODD THINGS I
APPRECIATE THERE.
THEY&apos;RE CUTTING IT BACK AND
TRYING TO DO THE MINIMUM.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT SURE IT IS THE
MINIMUM AND I&apos;M NOT SURE LIKE
MAKING THE EFFORT OF FILING
TWICE MEANS YOU SHOULD GET IT,
WHICH IS WHAT IT FEELS LIKE A
LITTLE BIT TO ME.
SO I GUESS I NEED TO DECIDE
QUICK AND THE OTHER COMMENTS
WE&apos;RE READY FOR MOTION CHRIS.
YEP.
THANK YOU, ZIBA.
&gt;&gt; TWENTY TWO TWENTY FIVE 22
EIGHTY CHAUCER COURT BASED ON
THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS AND IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL, THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A FOREFOOT REAR YARD
SETBACK VARIANCE FROM CHAPTER
55 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE TABLE FIVE SEVENTEEN DASH
ONE SINGLE FAHMI DISTRICT
DIMENSION&apos;S THE APPLICANT IS
PROPOSING TO COMPLETE
CONSTRUCTION ON A SCREENED IN
PORCH AT THE REAR FACADE OF THE
HOME.
THE SCREENED PORCH IS TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS
HAVE A MOTION TO SUPPORT
SUPPORT.
THANK YOU DE
CHRIS FREELY YES
TODD YES.
CHRIS MADIGAN NO I VOTE YES
MCDANIEL YES DEVOTEE YES.
JULIA NO
.
&gt;&gt; THE REQUEST IS GRANTED YES
OH THANK YOU SO MOVING ON
PETITION ZUBIA TWENTY TWO DASH
KUZE ZERO ZERO THREE THREE
EIGHT ZERO FIVE WILDERMUTH
RAIJA ALL RIGHT THIRTY ZERO
FIVE WALDEN WOULD DRIVE A LEAD
AND AZIN MAHMOUD PROPERTY
OWNERS ARE REQUESTING RELIEF
FROM SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY
TWO POINT TWO ALTERATION TO A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
CONSTRUCT A SUNROOM ADDITIONS
TO THE REAR OF THE EXISTING
NONCONFORMING HOME.
THE NEW SUNROOM IS
APPROXIMATELY THREE HUNDRED
FIFTY FIVE SQUARE FEET AREA AND
WILL NOT ENCROACH FURTHER INTO
THE REAR SET BACK THE PROPERTY
IS OWNED R-1 BE SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED ON
A CUL DE SAC LOT AND THE WALDEN
WOOD NEIGHBORHOOD WEST
OF ERHART ROAD AND SOUTH
OF GLACIER WAY.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
SEVENTY EIGHT AND IS
APPROXIMATELY TWO THOUSAND
EIGHT HUNDRED SEVENTEEN SQUARE
FEET IN SIZE.
THE NEW CONSTRUCTION WILL ALLOW
FOR A NEW BASEMENT AREA AND
FIRST FLOOR SUNROOM.
THE SUNROOM DIMENSIONS ARE
FIFTEEN POINT THREE FEET BY
NINETEEN POINT SEVEN FEET AND
WILL SQUARE OFF THE NORTHWEST
CORNER OF THE HOME.
THE SECOND FLOOR WILL RECEIVE A
ONE FOOT FOUR INCH WINDOW SEAT
FOR A CHILD&apos;S BEDROOM.
ALL CONSTRUCTION WILL NOT
ENCROACH FURTHER INTO THE
EXISTING ESTABLISHED REAR SET
BACK COVID 19 FEET FOUR POINT
TWENTY FIVE INCHES MOVING TO
THE POWERPOINT
YOU SEE THESE
SUBJECT PROPERTY HIGHLIGHTED IN
YELLOW ON THE FIRST SLIDE THE
ZONING MAP AND SEE GLAZIER WAY
THE PROPERTIES DUE SOUTH
OF GLACIER WAY.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOCATION
MAP.
IT SHOWS THE EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTO
.
THESE ARE THE FLOOR PLANS THAT
WERE SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION YOU SEE THE
PROPOSED BASEMENT PLAN RIGHT
HERE IN THE UPPER LEFT CORNER.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE FIRST
FLOOR PLAN WHICH WILL BE THE
ENCLOSED SUNROOM AND YOU SEE
THIS AS A WINDOW WELL BELOW OR
EXCUSE THEN THE SECOND FLOOR
PLAN SHOWS THE WINDOW RIGHT
HERE ON THE SECOND FLOOR.
THESE ARE THE ELEVATION
DRAWINGS.
THIS IS A BACK ELEVATION AND
THIS IS THE SIDE ELEVATION
SHOWING THE AREA WHERE THERE&apos;S
GOING TO BE A PROPOSED SUNROOM
RIGHT HERE THESE ARE THE PHOTOS
THAT I TOOK WHEN I WAS AT MY
INSPECTION.
YOU SEE THE FRONT FACADE OF THE
HOME ON THE CUL DE SAC THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOWS THE SIDE YARD.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THIS THE
AREA WHERE THE PROPOSED SUNROOM
IS GOING TO BE RIGHT HERE
IS
THE BACK OF THE HOME AND THIS
IS WHERE THE PROPOSED SUNROOM
WILL BE ON THE LEFT HAND SIDE
AND THIS IS JUST A CLOSE UP
PHOTO OF WHERE THE PROPOSED
SUNROOM ADDITIONS WILL BE IN
THIS CORNER OF THE HOUSE AND
JUST ANOTHER AREA SHOWING THAT
THIS IS LOOKING FROM THE SIDE
YARD TOWARDS THE AREA WHERE
THIS PROPOSED ROOM WILL BE AND
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE
NEIGHBORS TO THE NORTH.
AND THERE&apos;S ONE OTHER THING I
WILL SHOW AS ON THE AERIAL
PHOTO YOU SEE THIS IS THIS IS
HOW THIS IS THE REAR YARD
OF THIS PROPERTY AND YOU SEE
HOW NONCONFORMING IT DOES NOT
MEET THAT REAR YARD SET BACK
AND SO THEY&apos;RE GOING TO PUT
THIS SUNROOM RIGHT IN THIS AREA
RIGHT HERE AND SO IT WON&apos;T
ENCROACH FURTHER INTO THAT REAR
STEP BACK AND THAT&apos;S WHY IT&apos;S
AN ALTERATION BECAUSE IT&apos;S NOT
GOING TO ENCROACH ANY FURTHER
AND THEN SO IT&apos;LL BE A
BASEMENT, A SUNROOM AND THEN
THE WINDOW WILL BE BACK OVER
HERE BUT IT WILL ENCROACH
FURTHER THAN THAT PORTION
OF THE HOME AS WELL.
SO THE WINDOW SEAT AND THE
SUNROOM WILL REQUIRE THE
ALTERATION.
I CAN TAKE ANY QUESTIONS AT
THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
CHRIS, IS THERE NO SAFE PLAN IN
THIS?
UH, GIVE ME ONE SECOND.
YOU GUYS GIVE ME ONE SECOND TO
UH POSSIBLY FIND THAT
CERTIFICATE OF A SURVEY WITH A
SITE LIKE
THE YOU CAN GO ON AND
THE SAME PLAN LOOKS LIKE
THERE&apos;S A DIFFERENT PROPERTY
LINE THAN THERE IS ON THE
ZONING MAP OR THE OVERHEAD
THERE AL-SHARQ LIKE
SIGNIFICANTLY DIFFERENT THE SO
I CAN I CAN THIS YEAR.
YES THE PROPERTY LINES ARE
OFTEN OFF BY A FEW FEET ACROSS
IT&apos;S NORMAL.
I APOLOGIZE FOR NOT HAVING THAT
SLIDE.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S RIGHT HERE ON YOUR
SCREEN OK IT&apos;S IN THE PACKET
AND IT&apos;S IN THE BACK OF TWO
IT&apos;S IN YEAH YEAH SO IT&apos;S RIGHT
HERE IN THE SCREEN YOU SEE
WHERE THE FIRST IT SAYS FIRST
FLOOR DECK EXISTING.
YEAH THAT&apos;S WHERE THE SUNROOM
IS GOING TO BE AND THEN YOU SEE
THE RELATIONSHIP TO THE THAT
REALLY THAT LINE IS TWENTY ONE
POINT THREE.
THE WINDOW SEAT WILL BE UP HERE
.
IT WILL NOT ENCROACH FURTHER ON
THAT SIDE AND THEN THIS SUNROOM
WITH THE BASEMENT BELOW WILL BE
RIGHT HERE AND SO IT&apos;S NOT
ENCROACHING ANY FURTHER INTO
THAT SET BACK.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHY IT&apos;S AN
ALTERATION.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONERS HERE YOU CAN
COME FORWARD STATE YOUR NAME IF
YOU ARE MY NAME NAZANIN MCMOON
AND I&apos;M CALLING.
ALL RIGHT.
YOU CAN BEGIN YOU&apos;LL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES TO MAKE A PRESENTATION
.
SO WE&apos;RE PROPOSING TO ADD THE
SUN ROOM SPACE TO THE BASEMENT
BELOW IT.
THIS IS IN ADDITION TO THE LEFT
SIDE OF OUR PROPERTY.
YOUR YARD WE WOULD LIKE TO
EXTEND THE SUNROOM ALONG THE
NORTHWEST CORNER OF OUR HOME.
&gt;&gt; MOST OF THE SUNROOM WOULD BE
BUILT IN THE REQUIRED REAR
YARD.
WE DO NOT PROPOSE TO EXTEND IT
FARTHER THAN THE EXISTING SIDE
AND BACK WALLS OF OUR HOME AS
YOU CAN SEE ON THE STREETS AND
GOT TO AND AS YOUNG MENTIONED
EARLIER, THIS IS AN EXISTING
NOT ON FAMILY STRUCTURE.
WE DO NOT KNOW HOW IT WAS
APPROVED BEFORE IF WE BOUGHT
THE PROPERTY MORE THAN TEN
YEARS AGO AND THAT&apos;S HOW IT
WAS.
SO THERE IS AN EXISTING WE WANT
JUST TO OUR PURPOSE IS TO
COVER IT WITH AS AND USE IT AS
A SENATOR AND IN THE PROCESS WE
WANT TO INCLUDE A BASEMENT IN
THERE AND AT THIS TIME WE HAVE
LOOKED AT IT SHOULD NOT AND
PROBABLY SHARE OUR
INCONVENIENCE ANY PROPERTY ANY
OF THEM ENGLER&apos;S OH AND ONE
THING I DO WANT TO FIND OUT
EARLIER IN THE PRESENTATION
THAT JOHN MADE THE SAME MISTAKE
ON THE NORTHWEST SIDE OF THE
PROPERTY, NOT THE OTHER.
THERE ARE TWO DECKS BEHIND OUR
HOUSE IS ON THE NORTHWEST SIDE
,NOT THE OTHER ONE THAT JOHN
ALLEN WAS POINTING OUT.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S A THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR PETITIONERS
.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
IF THERE&apos;S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, PLEASE COME
FORWARD.
SIGN IN STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD.
&gt;&gt; YOU&apos;LL HAVE THREE MINUTES.
HI, IT&apos;S ME.
WE LIVE IN THIRTY SEVEN NINETY
FIVE WALTON WILL DRIVE WHICH IS
THE ONLY HOUSE IN THE BACK
OF THIS HOUSE.
SO WE&apos;VE BEEN THINKING ABOUT
THIS PROJECT QUITE A LOT HOW TO
BE A GOOD NEIGHBOR WHILE
KEEPING OUR HOME PEACEFUL AS IT
IS NOW.
SO WE&apos;RE NOT TAKING THIS
LIGHTLY.
SO IN GENERAL OBJECTING TO THIS
PROJECT WITH WHAT WE KNOW
OF THE PROJECT AND THEN TO PUT
SOME CONTEXT TO IT, BOTH MY
HUSBAND AND I WORK FULLY FROM
HOME AND WE SPEND MOST OF OUR
TIME IN THE KITCHEN, THE LIVING
ROOM, THE DECOR AND THE
VEGETABLE GARDEN AND ALL THESE
ARE FACING UP TO THIS PROJECT,
THE SITE OF THIS PROJECT
DIRECTLY TO OUR NEIGHBORS
PROPOSED PROJECT AND AND WE
ALSO HAVE THE MEASUREMENTS I
THINK IT&apos;S ABOUT TWENTY FEET
FROM DEIR AND TO THE BORDER
AND LIKE ANOTHER TWENTY FIVE
FEET FROM OUR BORDER TO OUR AND
SO I SEND A PHOTO AND AND HERE
RIGHT NOW BASICALLY WHEN WE
LOOK AT THEIR HOUSES WE SEE A
BIG WALL WITH TWO BEDROOM
WINDOWS AND SO THAT MEANS THAT
WHEN WE ARE IN OUR LIVING
QUARTERS DURING THE DAY WE&apos;RE
STARING AT A WALL AND WHEN THEY
ARE IN YOUR BEDROOMS DURING THE
NIGHT WE ARE NOT IN OUR LIVING
QUARTERS SO WE ARE NOT REALLY
FACING EACH OTHER THAT THAT
MUCH OF AND I THINK OH WE THINK
THIS MIGHT HAVE BEEN
INTENTIONAL BY DESIGN WITH THE
HOUSES SO THAT THERE&apos;S A LITTLE
PRIVACY BUT WE WORRY THAT THIS
WILL CHANGE WITH THE SUNROOM
BECAUSE SUN IS A YEAR AROUND
TWENTY FOR OUR LIVING AREA AND
AND OUR NEIGHBOR STOPPED BY THE
OTHER DAY TO EXPLAIN THE
PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; WE REALLY APPRECIATE THAT
AND THEY SAID THAT YOU&apos;RE GOING
TO BE USING THIS AS A YOGA ROOM
OR WHEN YOU HAVE GUESTS BUT
SOME ROOM IS NOT PORTABLE SO
WHEN THEY MOVE THEY&apos;RE NOT
GOING TO MOVE INTO ONE ROOM AND
WE WOULDN&apos;T IF THEY MOVE AND WE
WOULDN&apos;T KNOW WHAT THE NEXT
OWNERS WILL DO.
SO AGAIN WE&apos;RE WORRIED ABOUT IT
AND WE ASKED FOR PROJECT
DETAILS TO SEE HOW MANY WINDOWS
THERE WILL BE AND WE WERE TOLD
THAT THOSE ARE NOT FINALIZED
YET.
SO WE&apos;RE NOT EVEN SURE WE&apos;RE
OPPOSING OR AGREEING ON IF
THEY&apos;RE NOT FINAL.
&gt;&gt; SO OF COURSE IF THE END AND
THAT&apos;S HOW WE DECIDE THE
PROJECT.
BUT IF THE END IF THE COUNCIL
DECIDES TO APPROVE THE PROJECT,
OF COURSE WE FULLY RESPECT THAT
BUT WE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE THREE
REQUESTS IN THAT CASE.
ONE OF THEM IS YOU KNOW, THE
PLANS ARE NOT FINALIZED.
CAN THEY HAVE LESS AND THIRTY
PERCENT WINDOW FACING US?
THE OTHER ONE IS WE WOULD LIKE
THIS CONSTRUCTION TO BE
STARTING IN THE FALL.
WE HAVE FAMILIES COMING OUT
OF THE COUNTRY FOR OUR BORDERS
ORGANIZATION WHICH IS GOING TO
TAKE PLACE IN THE BACKYARD AND
I THINK YOU KNOW, MEETING IN
MICHIGAN, EVERYONE DESERVES THE
CONSTRUCTION FREE SUMMER AND
THEN FINALLY YOU LIKE THEM TO
PLANT EVERGREENS IN THEIR YARD
TO PROVIDE SOME PRIVACY.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S ALL I WANT TO SAY.
THANK YOU.
WHAT WHAT&apos;S YOUR AREA WHICH IS
YOUR HOUSE AND THIS PICTURE IS
THIS ONE THE ONE ON THE COURT I
RECOMMEND THAT YOU THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES
TO SPEAK ON THIS PETITION
EITHER IN PERSON OR IF YOU&apos;RE
ACCESSING THE MEETING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE OR USE
THE RACE HAND FUNCTION ON THE
UPLINK STAFF WILL CALL YOU
RIGHT HER WITH THE USERNAME
JANE YOU&apos;LL HAVE THREE MINUTES
TO ADDRESS THE ZIBA.
HI.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, MY NAME IS JANE THROUGH
HAMILTON.
I&apos;M REPRESENTING THE NEIGHBOR
TO THE WEST WHICH IS THIRTY
EIGHT OR NINE ALDERWOOD AND THE
THE PROPERTY LINE IS ACTUALLY
FARTHER TO THE WEST THAN THE
YELLOW LINE SHOWS IT&apos;S GOING
RIGHT THROUGH THEIR SHED.
I HAVE A FEW COMMENTS RIGHT NOW
WE SEE QUITE AN OVERCROWDED
VIEW.
&gt;&gt; WE SEE A SHED, A BIG
GENERATOR, A FENCE, OVERCROWDED
LANDSCAPING.
THERE&apos;S REALLY NO OPEN SPACE IN
OUR VIEW OF THIS HOUSE AND I
DIDN&apos;T EVEN KNOW THAT SHED
FENCES WERE ALLOWED IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD ACTUALLY AND
CURRENTLY THERE ARE TREES AND
PALMS AND WOOD CHIPS ARE ON OUR
SIDE OF THE PROPERTY LINE AND I
WOULD LIKE THAT RECTIFIED
CERTAINLY BEFORE ANY BUILDING
GETS GOING IF THIS IS APPROVED
,THE WOOD CHIPS GET IN MY
MOWER AND AND MUCH THAT
LANDSCAPING IS ON OUR SIDE
OF THE PROPERTY LINE.
I&apos;D ALSO LIKE TO CONFIRM THAT
THE SHED HAS THE PROPER SET
BACKS AND THAT IT&apos;S NOT TOO
CLOSE TO THE PROPERTY LINE AND
IF THE PROJECT IS APPROVED
WHICH I DEFINITELY OPPOSE IT
BUT ANY TRUCKS AND HEAVY
EQUIPMENT I&apos;D APPRECIATE IT IF
THEY&apos;VE USED THE EAST SIDE
OF THE HOUSE THIS TIME BECAUSE
WHEN THEY BUILT THE SHED MUCH
OF EQUIPMENT WAS COMING ON OUR
PROPERTY TO GET BACK THERE.
THAT&apos;S THANK YOU FOR LISTENING
.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
?
&gt;&gt; NO OTHER CALLERS.
THANK YOU KRISTEN.
I WANT THAT WE DID RECEIVE SOME
LETTERS BUT I BELIEVE THEY&apos;RE
FROM THE SAME INDIVIDUALS WHO
HAVE SPOKEN IN PERSON BOTH IN
OPPOSITION TO THE PROJECT.
LET&apos;S CORRECT YES.
AND WITH THAT THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED AND WE&apos;RE IN
DISCUSSIONS.
&gt;&gt; YES, I READ THE TWO LETTERS
AND IT WAS NICE TO HEAR THE TWO
NEIGHBORS COMMENTING ON THIS
AND I&apos;M IN FAVOR OF VOTING FOR
THIS BECAUSE THE FAIRLY LOOSE
STANDARD NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE I REALIZE IS NOT
SUPPOSED TO HAVE A DETRIMENTAL
IMPACT ON A NEIGHBORING
PROPERTY TO TO WHAT DEGREE
OF COURSE IS NOT SPECIFIED.
BUT I WOULD NOTE THAT WOOD
CHIPS AND BAD LANDSCAPING
CONSTRUCTION TIMING ARE NOT THE
PURVIEW OF OUR GROUP.
SO I BELIEVE THOSE THINGS
TOTALLY DROP OUT REGARDING THE
ONE THAT MIGHT PERHAPS BE
LARGER IN SOME OF THE REVIEWS
REGARDING THE NUMBER OF WINDOWS
WHERE NOW THERE&apos;S A BLANK WALL
ESSENTIALLY A PRIVACY CONCERN
BUT OF COURSE THE BUILDING
ENVELOPES AREN&apos;T GOING TO
CHANGE.
THEY&apos;RE NOT GOING TO GET CLOSER
TO EACH OTHER AND THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT CAN BE ADDRESSED
OBVIOUSLY WITH WINDOW
TREATMENTS.
SO IN MY VIEW THIS DROPS OUT AS
WELL AND IT WOULD BE NICE
OF COURSE THAT THE NEIGHBORS
TALK TO THE FOLKS IN
CONSTRUCTION TIMING.
BUT WHEN THE PROJECT STARTS
OF COURSE IS NOT PART OF OUR
PRETTY EITHER.
SO I LOOK AT THE NEIGHBORS
OBJECTIONS IS REALLY IRRELEVANT
,WOULD BE TOO HARSH A WORD BUT
THEY DROP OUT AND HINDER MY
VIEW AND VOTING FOR THIS
PROJECT, CHRIS, I WOULD LIKE A
SECOND ALL THOSE POINTS AND
ALSO POINT OUT THAT THE
CONSTRAINT ON THIS IS THE
CORNER A LOT OF ISSUE THAT WE
SEE SO OFTEN AND SO THAT IS
WHAT BRINGS IT IN FRONT OF US
AND THAT&apos;S ABOUT ALL I HAVE TO
SAY.
I JUST I JUST WANT TO BRING UP
THE CONCERN FOR THE NEIGHBOR
WHO SPOKE A LOT OF TIMES PEOPLE
SEE THESE GUYS PHOTOS AND LIKE
MR. MADIGAN POINTED OUT
EARLIER, THESE ARE GOOD
REFERENCES OR TOOLS AND GUIDES.
BUT DUE TO THE CURVATURE OF THE
EARTH AND PHOTOS BEING TAKEN
FROM AN AIRPLANE, THERE IS SOME
DISTORTION AND JUST LET THE
CONCERNED NEIGHBOR KNOW THAT
THIS SHED IS 5.5 FEET FROM THAT
FLAT LINE WHICH DOES MEET
CODE AND THAT IS BASED ON A
CERTIFIED SURVEY.
&gt;&gt; SO I JUST WANTED TO BRING
THAT UP FOR THE RECORD, JOE.
YEAH, I&apos;M GOING TO ECHO MY
FELLOW COMMISSIONERS POINTS AND
JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I
APPRECIATE WHERE THE NEIGHBORS
ARE COMING FROM BUT TO
ME BY
STAYING IN THE SAME ENVELOPE
THAT THEY&apos;RE IN NOW SOMEWHERE
JUST WANTING TO EXPAND THE USE
OF THEIR THEIR PROPERTY I MEAN
IF THERE&apos;S NOISE ISSUES,
THERE&apos;S ORDINANCES FOR THAT.
SO WITHOUT FURTHER ENCROACHING
TO ME, SMEETS THE LESSER
STANDARD THAT WE HAVE OVER NOT
CONFORMING ALTERATIONS, I&apos;LL BE
VOTING FOR IT.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; I DID HAVE ONE QUESTION
WITH REGARD TO SOME OF THEIR
CONCERNS AND IT REALLY LOOKS AT
THE QUESTION OF IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD IS THERE ANY JOA
AND IF THERE IS THEN THOSE ARE
ALL THOSE ISSUES THAT THAT TODD
BROUGHT UP REALLY CAN BE
ADDRESSED THROUGH THE WAY AND
NOT HERE.
AND SO I WANT THE NEIGHBORS TO
UNDERSTAND THAT.
NOT SURE THERE IS.
WELL, THEY SHOULD KNOW ANY
OTHER COMMENTS OR WE BUT I HAVE
A QUESTION FOR JOHN SO IT LOOKS
LIKE THERE IS A FIVE FOOT SET
BACK ON ONE SIDE AND A 40 FOOT
SETBACK ON THIS OTHER SIDE AND
THEN 30 FEET SETBACKS ON BOTH
THE STREET SIDES.
IS THAT ACCURATE?
IS THAT LIKE IT&apos;S THE ONE YARD
IS THOUGHT OF A SIDE YARD AND
THE OTHER ONE&apos;S THOUGHT OF AS A
BACKYARD?
I&apos;M JUST WONDERING WHY THE
DIFFERENCE SETBACKS THERE ARE
YOU LOOK AT THE SURVEY.
YEAH.
THE SITE PLAN AND WHICH WHICH
SETBACKS WERE YOU ASKING ABOUT?
&gt;&gt; SO THIS
THE SITE WHERE
I&apos;M
SORRY TO HEAR THIS IS A FIVE
FOOT AND THIS IS A 40 FOOT
CORRECT.
THAT&apos;S THE REAR.
WHY ISN&apos;T THIS BECAUSE THE REAR
GUARD IN FRONT YEP.
IN THE REAR YARD IS OPPOSITE
OF THE SHORTER OF TWO LINEAR
FRONTAGES AND SO THAT&apos;S THE
SHORTER OF THE TWO.
YES THE I GOT IN THAT&apos;S
CORRECT.
AND THE FRONT EDGE ALONG THE
EAST SIDE IS ONE OH FIVE POINT
ONE THREE AND THE FRONT IS
ALONG THE FRONT OR THE DRIVEWAY
SIDE AS WALBURN WOULD DRIVE IS
ONE FORTY FIVE POINT TWO TO
THEREFORE PUTTING THE REAR YARD
ON THE WEST SIDE OF THE
PROPERTY GOT YOUR
ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION OR MOTION, CHRIS?
&gt;&gt; I&apos;D MAKE A MOTION.
THANK YOU SIR.
ZIBA TWENTY TWO DASH 2003
THIRTY EIGHT OH FIVE THIRTY
EXCUSE ME WALDEN WOULD DRIVE
ALTERATION TO A NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THREE TO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO ALLOW A
NEW SUNROOM ADDITIONS AND
SECOND STORY WINDOW SEAT TO THE
REAR OF THE EXISTING
NONCONFORMING HOME THE NEW 355
SQUARE FOOT SUNROOM AND WINDOW
SEAT WILL NOT ENCROACH FURTHER
INTO THE REAR SET BACK THAN THE
EXISTING RESIDENTS.
THE CONSTRUCTION MUST COMPLY
WITH THE SUBMITTED PLANS AND A
MOTION TO SUPPORT SUPPORT.
THANK YOU CHRIS TODD.
YES, JULIA YES CHRIS MADIGAN
YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES MCDANIEL YES.
&gt;&gt; DAVE NEVADA YES.
&gt;&gt; CHRIS FRALEY FREELY YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU EVERYONE.
OR APPROVING AND TO OUR NEEDLER
STAFF WE APPRECIATE YOUR
COMMENTS AND THAT WILL MAKE
EVERYTHING TO ISSUES YOU RAISED
AND COME UP TO.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZYDA
TWENTY TWO DASH TWO ZERO ZERO
ZERO ZERO TWELVE ZERO SEVEN
GARDNER AVENUE JOHN DOWN ZOBER
ARCHITECT REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNERS ARE SEEKING A
VARIANCE FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT SIXTEEN POINT SIX
SUBSECTION A TO SEE ACCESSORY
USERS AND STRUCTURES TO
CONSTRUCT A NEW DETACHED GARAGE
ONE FOOT FROM THE REAR FLAT
LINE.
THE OWNERS PLAN ON DEMOLISHING
THE EXISTING GARAGE AND
BUILDING THAT THIRTEEN FOOT
FOUR INCH BY 20 FOOT GARAGE
THAT WILL BE TWO HUNDRED AND
SIXTY SIX SQUARE FEET AND AREA
.
THE PLANNED GARAGE WILL MEET
THE SIDE YARD SETBACK
REQUIREMENT OF THREE FEET.
THE PROPERTY IS OWNED R1 D
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
AT THE INTERSECTION OF GARDINER
AVENUE AND FERNVALE PLACE WEST
OF PACKER ROAD IN THE LOWER
BERN&apos;S PARK NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
TWENTY SIX AND IS APPROXIMATELY
ONE THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED
FORTY SIX SQUARE FEET IN SIZE
AND NONCONFORMING DETACHED
GARAGE EXISTING SLIGHTLY LESS
THAN ONE FOOT FROM THE REAR
LINE IS PROPOSED TO BE
DEMOLISHED.
THE EXISTING GARAGE IS TO BE
REPLACED WITH A NEW SLIGHTLY
LARGER DETACHED GARAGE THAT
WILL BE ONE FOOT FROM THE REAR
FLAT ON THE APPLICANTS ARE
PROPOSING THE VARIANCE TO ALLOW
A FIVE FOOT DISTANCE BETWEEN
THE TWO STRUCTURES FOR BETTER
ACCESS TO THE REAR YARD
MOVING
TO THE POWERPOINT
.
THE FIRST SLIDE IS THE ZONING
MAP.
YOU SEE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW IN THE
CENTER JUST WEST OF PACKARD
ROAD ON THE NORTH SIDE GARDNER
AVENUE THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE
LOCATION MAP SHOWING
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY.
IN NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION YOU SEE THE
EXISTING ONE CAR GARAGE AND
OUTLINED ABOVE IS THE PROPOSED
NEW GARAGE AND IT&apos;S TO IT&apos;S
GOING TO MEET THE THREE FOOT
SIDE SET BACK AND REQUESTING
THE TWO FOOT VARIANCE TO THE
REAR AND YOU SHOULD SEE IN THIS
NEXT SLIDE THAT IT SHOWS THE
RED LINE INDICATES THE PROPOSED
NEW GARAGE SHOWING THE FIVE
FOOT SEPARATION BETWEEN THE
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE AND THE
PROPOSED GARAGE AND GRAY LINE
INDICATES EXISTING GARAGE TO BE
DEMOLISHED.
THIS IS THE FLOOR PLAN THAT IT
WAS SUBMITTED.
AS I SAID IT WAS THIRTEEN FEET
FOUR INCHES BY TWENTY FEET FOR
APPROXIMATELY TWO HUNDRED SIXTY
SIX SQUARE FEET.
YOU SEE IT MEETING THE THREE
FOOT SIDES UP BACK HERE AND
THEN THE ONE FOOT REQUEST IN
THE REAR THESE THIS IS THE SIDE
ELEVATION OF THE PROPOSED NEW
GARAGE.
THIS IS THE FRONT ELEVATION
OF THE PROPOSED NEW GARAGE.
&gt;&gt; YOU SEE IT&apos;S JUST A LITTLE
OVER TWELVE FEET IN HEIGHT.
ANOTHER SIDE ELEVATION AND THE
REAR ELEVATION THESE ARE THE
PHOTOS THAT I TOOK AT MY
INSPECTION SEE THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE AND THE GARAGE IN THE
BACK BACKGROUND TO THE RIGHT
COMING DOWN THE DRIVEWAY
LOOKING AT THE EXISTING GARAGE
AND YOU SEE THE DISTANCE
BETWEEN THE FENCE LINE AND THE
EXISTING GARAGE AND THE SIDE
IS
THERE AGAIN THIS IS IN THE
BACKYARD LOOKING AT THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE GARAGE, THE WEST
SIDE OF IT AND THIS IS LOOKING
AT THE REAR OF THE GARAGE HOW
IT EXISTS CURRENTLY
APPROXIMATELY ONE FEET AND YOU
SEE THE DISTANCE BETWEEN THE
NEIGHBORING OR BUDDING
PROPERTIES GARAGE.
THIS IS LOOKING DOWN THE SIDE
ELEVATION AND THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND THE
DETACHED GARAGE AND THE REAR
YARD AND THIS IS LOOKING AT THE
REAR ELEVATION OF THE EXISTING
HOME AND THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN THE TWO STRUCTURES AS
THEY CURRENTLY EXIST.
&gt;&gt; ANOTHER LOOK DOWN THE SIDE
OF THE GARAGE, NOT THE BUDDING
PROPERTY AND THAT IS THE END
OF MY SLIDES AND MY
PRESENTATION.
I&apos;LL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU MAY HAVE AT THIS TIME.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, JOHN.
QUESTION YES.
UH, DID YOU SAY THAT A FIVE
FOOT FIVE FEET BETWEEN THE
PRINCIPAL HOUSE AND THE
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE WAS
SOMETHING THAT THEY&apos;VE PROPOSED
FOR EASE OF ACCESS OR IS A
MINIMUM DISTANCE REQUIREMENT
THAT THE CITY HAS IT&apos;S FOR EASE
OF ACCESS.
OK, IS THERE A MINIMUM DISTANCE
THAT THE CITY REQUIRES BETWEEN
PRINCIPAL AND ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES?
THERE&apos;S NOT ONCE THAT ONCE OR
CERTAIN DISTANCES THEY HAVE TO
DO FIRE RATED CONSTRUCTION BUT
THEY&apos;RE ALLOWED TO BE LESS THAN
FIVE FEET.
I NEED QUESTIONS FOR JOHN.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
THE PETITION IS READY.
YOU MAY COME FORWARD AND SIGN
IN STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD IF YOU&apos;RE ACCESSING
ONLINE YOU MAY BEGIN YOUR
PRESENTATION.
YOU WILL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JOHN ZUBA WAS STUDIO
ARCHITECTURE AT 409 PLYMOUTH
ROAD IN MICHIGAN.
I&apos;M SORRY I&apos;M PLYMOUTH ROAD IN
PLYMOUTH, MICHIGAN.
SORRY I THINK JOHN SUMMARIZER
OUR REQUESTS VERY WELL.
AS YOU CAN SEE WE&apos;RE TRYING TO
KEEP THE GARAGE PRETTY MUCH ITS
EXISTING FOOTPRINT JUST MAKE IT
A SLIGHTLY LARGER SPACE FOR
STORAGE OF A MODERN VEHICLE AND
SOME
LARGE EQUIPMENT.
THE FIVE FOOT SPACE BETWEEN THE
HOUSE AND THE GARAGE WE&apos;RE
TRYING TO MAINTAIN SO THAT IF
THERE&apos;S ANY NEED TO GET ANY
KIND OF EQUIPMENT IN THE
BACKYARD TO TAKE DOWN THE TREE,
FOR EXAMPLE, THAT WE&apos;RE NOT
TOTALLY BLOCKING OUR BACKYARD
OFF THE SITE PLAN SHOWS JUST
HOW TIGHT THE THE OTHER SIDE
YARD SETBACK IS.
THE HOUSE IS ACTUALLY NOT
INFORMING ON THE OTHER ON THE
WEST SIDE.
SO HOPEFULLY I MEAN I&apos;M
AVAILABLE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
&gt;&gt; I HAVE TWO QUESTIONS.
THE EXISTING GARAGE IS CLOSER
TO THE REAR SETBACK THAN WHAT
YOU&apos;RE PROPOSING BY AN INCH OR
TWO.
YES, IS IT ON THE REAR SET BACK
ON THE REAR LOT LINE BY ANY
CHANCE?
&gt;&gt; IT IS NOT IS NOT ON THE REAR
LOT LINE.
IT&apos;S APPROXIMATELY LIKE 11
INCHES OR TEN INCHES OFF THE
LOT.
OK, WHY ARE YOU TEARING
EXISTING GARAGE DOWN HERE?
&gt;&gt; ARE WATER INFILTRATION
PROBLEMS.
THERE WAS ONE PHOTO THAT JOHN
SHOWED OF THE SIDE OF THE
GARAGE FROM THE BACKYARD AND
YOU COULD KIND OF SEE THE
SIDING KIND OF GOES DOWN BELOW
THE THE SURROUNDING TRADE.
SO THE HOMEOWNER HAS HAD ISSUES
WITH WATER INFILTRATION AND
SHE&apos;S HAD ISSUES WITH A CRACKED
SLAB THAT APPARENTLY LETS WATER
IN AS WELL AND SHE HAS
SQUIRRELS AND OTHER SMALL
ANIMALS THAT HAVE TAKEN UP
RESIDENCE IN THIS GARAGE.
OK, IT&apos;S IN PRETTY BAD SHAPE.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, PLEASE COME
FORWARD.
NOW IF YOU ARE ACCESSING THE
MEETING ONLINE OR BY PHONE,
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE
YOUR HAND OR USE THE RAISED
HAND FUNCTION ON THE WEBLINK
THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, KRISTEN.
I WILL NOTE THAT WE DID RECEIVE
ONE LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM HUGH
HUNTLEY AND ELIZABETH STERN AT
12 ZERO SIX GARDNER AVENUE AND
WITH THAT THE PUBLIC HEARINGS
CLOSED AND WE&apos;RE IN DISCUSSION
JULIA JOHN, I KNOW I&apos;VE ASKED
YOU THIS BEFORE IT AT WHAT
POINT DO THEY NEED A VARIANCE
LIKE IF THEY JUST IF THEY LEAVE
THE ROOF AND DO REPAIRS WELL,
THEY CAN THEY COULD REMOVE THE
ROOF AND DO REPAIRS.
SO IT&apos;S ONCE YOU EXCEED SEVENTY
WELL IT&apos;S SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT
IF THE STRUCTURE IS DEMOLISHED
OR DAMAGED.
SO EXCLUSIVE OF THE FOUNDATION
SO THEY COULD REPAIR THE ROOF.
YES.
WITHOUT A VERY BUT YOU KNOW YOU
COULDN&apos;T JUST LEAVE ONE WALL UP
AND TAKE THREE DOWN THE ROOF
DOWN AND THAT WOULD BE
EXCEEDING THE CODE IT&apos;S ONE
THAT SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT
OF THE APPRAISED VALUE BY THE
BUILDING OFFICIAL AND SO YOU
COULD YOU COULD REPLACE AND
REPAIR A ROOF.
BUT OK, THIS REQUEST IS TO
COMPLETELY DEMOLISH IT AND
START A NEW FOUNDATION AND
START ALL OVER AND GENERALLY
THE SAME EXACT LOCATION AS IT
CURRENTLY IS.
UH, I&apos;M JUST TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT IT DOESN&apos;T SEEM TO BE
MEETING THE LIST OF STANDARDS.
YOU KNOW, AS FAR AS
PRACTICALITY OR AS FAR AS A
UNIQUE LOFT
IT OK.
&gt;&gt; WELL, I WAS HUMMING ALONG
THINKING THIS WOULD BE EASY.
AND JULIE, THIS QUESTION HAS
NOW GOT MY BRAIN WORKING
OVERTIME SO I UNDERSTAND THIS
IS BEING LOOKED AT UNDER THE
SEEKING OF VARIOUS CRITERIA BUT
UNDER THE STANDARDS
OF ALTERATION TO A
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE THERE&apos;S
WHICH JOHN IS REMINDED ME
OF MORE THAN ONCE THAT IF YOU
TEAR THE STRUCTURE DOWN AND IF
THIS THING IS DEVELOPING AND
THEY SAY IT IS JUST NOT WORTH
VERY MUCH THEN IT SHOULD NOT BE
REPLACED.
SO I REALIZE THERE ARE TWO
SEPARATE AND INQUIRIES BUT IF
WE REALLY THINK OF THE
STRUCTURES THE GARAGE, THE
SEPARATE STRUCTURE FROM THE
HOUSE AND THEY DECIDE TO GET
RID IT&apos;S NONCONFORMING BECAUSE
IT&apos;S A FOOT FROM THE LANDMINE.
AREN&apos;T WE COMPELLED TO JUST SAY
TOO BAD YOU CHOSE TO RIP IT
OUT, YOU JUST DON&apos;T GET TO KEEP
IT VERSUS YOU KNOW, THE OTHER
PART OF MY BRAIN IS SAYING,
WELL, THIS IS A CRUMMY GARAGE.
YOU DON&apos;T WANT IT TO FALL DOWN
ON THE CAR.
&gt;&gt; WHAT&apos;S THE BIG DEAL?
WE&apos;RE JUST GOING TO PUT IT BACK
IN THE EXISTING ENVELOPE SO I&apos;M
NOT SURE HOW TO RECONCILE THIS
CONFLICT.
YOU KNOW, ARE WE ARE THEY
ALLOWED TO ESSENTIALLY DO IT
AND RUND AROUND THE PROBE&apos;S ON
CONTINUING AND ALL CONFIRMING
STRUCTURE BY SEEKING A VARIANCE
?
I NEED SOME ENLIGHTENMENT ON
THIS OR MAYBE I&apos;M JUST GETTING
TOO CONFUSED ABOUT THIS
AND
THAT&apos;S SORT OF A LONG QUESTION
I WAS LOOKING FOR SOME HELP.
JOHN, SORRY.
YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE RIPPING OUT A
NONCONFORMIST STRUCTURE.
THEY&apos;RE CHOOSING TO DO THAT.
SO YOU THINK I WAS WAITING FOR
YOUR COLLEAGUES TO RESPOND TO
THAT TO I GUESS THEY YEAH.
I HAVE A QUESTION.
WHAT IF YEAH.
GOOD.
WHAT&apos;S THE REQUIRED SET BACK
FROM THE REAR THAT THEY&apos;RE
ASKING A VARIANCE FROM?
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S THREE FEET FOR
ACCESSORY SO THEY&apos;RE ASKING FOR
BASICALLY A TWO FOOT DIFFERENCE
.
CORRECT.
BUT THEY COULD OK CHRIS DID YOU
HAVE YEAH.
SO I HAD I AGREE WITH YOUR
THOUGHTS A LOT.
I THINK I&apos;M VERY SPLIT BECAUSE
DOES IT SEEM TO BE A PROBLEM
THAT IS UNIQUE JUST TO SLOT IF
YOU LOOK AT THE SURVEY THERE IS
AN EXISTING GARAGE JUST BEHIND
THIS PROPERTY THAT PROBABLY
WOULD RUN INTO THE SAME
PROBLEMS THAT THEY NEEDED TO
REPLACE IT.
UM, AND SO I&apos;M NOT SURE THAT
THE PROPERTY PRESENTS A
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY THAT IS
UNIQUE TO THE PROPERTY OR IS AT
LEAST, UH, EXISTS IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD AND SO I DON&apos;T
KNOW HOW WIDESPREAD IT IS BUT
IF THAT&apos;S THE CASE, PERHAPS AN
AMENDMENT OR SOME KIND
OF WAIVER PROCESS WOULD BE MORE
APPROPRIATE THAN A LOT BY LOT
VARIANCE.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME THIS SLOT
WAS CLEARLY MADE FOR DIFFERENT
STANDARDS AND TO DENY A
VARIANCE TO REPLACE THE GARAGE
THAT&apos;S CRUMBLING I THINK MAY
DEPRIVE THEM OF A DEVELOPMENT
AND PROPERTY RIGHTS THAT THAT
THEIR NEIGHBORS ENJOY JUST
BECAUSE THEIR GARAGE HAPPENED
TO HOLD UP LONGER.
SO I THINK I&apos;M INCLINED TO
SUPPORT IT FOR THAT LAST
REASON.
BUT IT IS DIFFICULT TO SAY THAT
IS A ISSUE THAT IS UNIQUE TO
THIS PROPERTY AND NOT IT OCCURS
IN OTHER SIMILAR PROPERTIES.
I WILL AGREE WITH WHAT YOU JUST
SAID, CHRIS.
I&apos;M KIND OF IN THE SAME PLACE I
THOUGHT AT INITIAL LOOK THIS
WOULD BE EASIER THAN IT IS BUT
THERE ARE A LOT OF NUANCES TO
THIS THAT MAKE IT A LITTLE MORE
COMPLICATED.
I THINK I&apos;M ALSO LEANING
TOWARDS SUPPORT ON THIS JUST
BECAUSE I THINK IT IS A MINIMAL
REQUEST.
THEY&apos;RE PROPOSING A ONE CAR
GARAGE THAT DIMENSIONALLY IS
VERY SIMILAR TO THE EXISTING
GARAGE THAT&apos;S THERE.
I THINK IF IT WAS A BIGGER
STRUCTURE OR SOMETHING MORE
ELABORATE I WOULD BE MORE
INCLINED TO OPPOSE IT.
BUT SINCE IT&apos;S FOR ALL INTENTS
AND PURPOSES A ONE FOR ONE
REPLACEMENT OF WHAT&apos;S THERE, I
THINK I THINK I&apos;M OK WITH IT.
&gt;&gt; DAVE, I GREW UP IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD WHAT THEY CALL
LOWER BURNS PARK OR UNTENURED
FURSTENBERG&apos;S PARK.
&gt;&gt; I MOVED IN NINETEEN EIGHTY
ACTUALLY WITH SOME FRIENDS
BOUGHT A HOUSE ACROSS THE
STREET FROM WHERE MY MOM
CONTINUED TO LIVE AND WHERE I
HAD GROWN UP THERE WAS A THREE
STAR GARAGE BUILT ON THE
PROPERTY LINE THAT HAD BEEN
BUILT WITH CONCRETE BLOCK SIDES
SO IT WASN&apos;T GOING TO
DETERIORATE RIGHT ON A LOT
LINE.
I THINK THERE ARE A LOT
OF GARAGES IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
THOSE THAT STILL EXIST.
MANY HAVE BEEN TORN DOWN
ESPECIALLY WHERE THERE ARE
RENTAL HOUSES.
A LOT OF THEM HAVE OPENED IT UP
SO YOU COULD FIT MORE CARS FOR
PARKING.
IT&apos;S I HAVE NO PROBLEM
SUPPORTING US.
I THINK THESE REAR SETBACK IN
THIS SORT OF CASE WHAT&apos;S THE
PURPOSE?
SO I CAN COMFORTABLY VOTE FOR
THIS JULIA SO I COULD ASK
WHAT&apos;S THE PURPOSE
OF A LOT
OF OUR ARBOR&apos;S EXISTING ZONING
CODE ?
&gt;&gt; BUT I WAS SUPPOSED TO BE
ENFORCING EXISTING CODE AND I I
DON&apos;T THINK IT WOULD BE DENYING
THEM USE OF HAVING A GARAGE.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, IF YOU COME TO
FEET FORWARD AND YOU TAKE SIX
INCHES OFF THE LENGTH OF THE
GARAGE AND THEN IT TAKES YOU A
FOOT CLOSER TO THE HOUSE OR YOU
DO SOME LANDSCAPING AND YOU GET
RID OF THE BRICK AND PUT IN
RAIN GARDEN AND ADDRESS THE
WATER PROBLEMS YOU&apos;RE HAVING, I
I DON&apos;T THINK HOLDING TO THE
CODE WOULD DENY THEM HAVING A
GARAGE THEIR
CHRIS I THINK THE
THE ARGUMENT THAT YOU JUST MADE
THOUGH ONCE YOU START
DOWNSIZING THE THIS EXISTING
STRUCTURE TO BE REBUILT YOU
REALLY START TO TALK ABOUT A
GARDEN SHED.
I MEAN THERE&apos;S A REALLY SMALL
STRUCTURE I&apos;M LOOKING AT THE
SIDE VIEW THAT WE HAD WE WERE
LOOKING AT THE PICTURES OR THE
SASH WINDOW AND I&apos;M THINKING I
DON&apos;T WANT A CAR THAT I COULD
FIT IN THERE.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M KIND OF IT WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE
VIOLATING OUR OUR TRUST HERE IF
WE DON&apos;T GO ALONG WITH WHAT YOU
SAY, WHAT YOU&apos;RE WHAT YOU&apos;RE
WHAT YOU&apos;RE GOOD ARGUMENT IS
BUT I ALSO I&apos;M I&apos;M TORN THE
SAYING THAT I CAN&apos;T YOU
SHOULDN&apos;T BE ABLE TO PUT THAT
BACK UP AND YOU&apos;RE COMING AWAY
FROM THE PROPERTY LINE FURTHER
I GUESS I IT&apos;S A SMALL
STRUCTURE TO BEGIN WITH AND I
REALLY I WANT TO SUPPORT THIS.
&gt;&gt; I REALLY DO.
DO YOU WANT ME TO START MAKING
THE ARGUMENTS WHY PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO HAVE TO STOP OWNING
SUVS?
THEY DON&apos;T HAVE AN SUV IN THEIR
DRIVEWAY.
I DON&apos;T BELIEVE THAT&apos;S AN SUV
OR IF IT IS IT&apos;S A SMALL ONE
BUT LIKE YEAH, WHEN I GO WHERE
I&apos;M FROM DAVE AND OTHERS I MEAN
THIS IS REAR SET BACK THAT
BACKS UP INTO ANOTHER GARAGE.
THIS IS EASY.
YES.
FOR ME WE&apos;RE READY FOR MOTION.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL MAKE IT.
THANK YOU, CHRIS ZIBA TWENTY
TWO DASH TWO THOUSAND TWELVE 07
GARDNER AVENUE BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS AND IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL, THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A TWO FOOT SET BACK
VARIANCE FROM CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT ONE SIX
POINT SIX A 2C ACCESSORY USES
AND STRUCTURES THE APPLICANT IS
PROPOSING TO COMPLETE
CONSTRUCTION FOR A THIRTEEN
FOOT FOUR INCH BY 20 FOOT
GARAGE THAT WILL BE 266 SQUARE
FEET IN AREA.
THE NEW GARAGE WILL BE ONE FOOT
FROM THE REAR FLAT LINE.
THE GARAGE IS TO BE BUILT PER
THE SUBMITTED PLANS SET IN
MOTION TO SUPPORT SUPPORT FOR
THANK YOU THIS I VOTE YES MIKE
.
&gt;&gt; YES DAVE DAVE ALREADY YES.
CHRIS FRALEY FREELY YES.
TODD YES.
JULIA NO.
CHRIS MADIGAN YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY TWO DASH TO ZERO ZERO
FOUR THREE ZERO NINE E MADISON
ST. JOHN ROBBERT OF OAK STUDIOS
REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY OWNER
IS REQUESTING RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TWO ALTERATION TO A
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
CONSTRUCT A TWO STOREY ADDITION
TO THE REAR OF THE EXISTING
RESIDENCE.
THE HOME IS NONCONFORMING
FALLOT AREA LOT WITH AND
REQUIRED SIDE SETBACKS.
THE EXISTING RESIDENCE THE
DUPLEX WITH TWO BEDROOMS IN
EACH UNIT.
THE ADDITIONAL INCREASE
INCREASE THE BEDROOM COUNT TO
SIX BEDROOMS IN EACH UNIT.
THE PROPOSED ADDITIONS WILL BE
OFFSET FOUR INCHES ON EACH SIDE
AND WILL NOT ENCROACH FURTHER
INTO THE SIDE SETBACKS THE
PROPERTY IS ZONED OUR FORESEE
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
NEAR THE INTERSECTION OF EAST
MADISON STREET AND SOUTH FIFTH
AVENUE WEST OF PACARD OUT THE
PROPERTY IS LOCATED ON A
STEEPLY SITE THAT SLOPES
DOWNWARD FROM EAST TO WEST.
THE EXISTING STRUCTURES OF TWO
STORY WOOD FRAMED RESIDENTS
BUILT IN NINETEEN EIGHTY ONE IN
APPROXIMATELY ONE THOUSAND TWO
HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE SQUARE FEET
IN SIZE.
THE BASEMENT IS CURRENTLY BEING
USED FOR MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
AND STORAGE.
THE PROPOSED ADDITIONAL WILL BE
APPROXIMATELY 17 FEET FOUR
POINT FIVE INCHES BY EIGHT FEET
THREE INCHES FOR A TOTAL
OF THREE HUNDRED TWENTY SQUARE
FEET OF NEW LIVING AREA.
THE BASEMENT WILL BE CONVERTED
FROM STORAGE AND MECHANICAL
FUNCTIONS TO HABITABLE LIVING
AREA AND BEDROOM SPACES.
THE EXISTING DOOR AND WINDOWS
WILL PROVIDE SEPARATE ACCESS TO
THIS UNIT.
THE ADDITION WILL CONNECT TO
THE BASEMENT AND EXPAND THE
DWELLING UNIT.
THE UNIT WILL CONNECT VIA
INTERNAL STAIR TO THE ADDITION
ON THE FIRST FLOOR AND COMPLETE
A FULL DWELLING UNIT.
THE FIRST AND SECOND FLOORS ARE
TO BE COMBINED FROM THE SECOND
DWELLING UNIT MOVING TO THE
POWER POINT
.
&gt;&gt; THE FIRST SLIDE IS THE
ZONING MAP YOU SEE THIS OBJECT
PROPERTY HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW
ON THE NORTH SIDE OF EAST
MADISEN STREET NEAR THE
INTERSECTION OF SOUTH FIFTH
AVENUE AND JUST WEST OF PACARD
STREET.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOCATION
MAP SHOWING THE SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS
AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTO
OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION YOU SEE THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY HIGHLIGHTED AND DASHED
RED LINES.
THE NEXT SLIDES ARE THE FLOOR
PLANS YOU SEE THE PROPOSED
ADDITIONS HIGHLIGHTED IN GRAY
AND THIS IS THE THE BASEMENT
LEVEL.
YOU SEE ITS BEDROOMS THREE FOUR
AND ONE AND TWO AND THEN THE
LEVEL FIRST FLOOR PLAN YOU SEE
BEDROOMS FIVE AND SIX ON THE
FIRST FLOOR AND THEN THE OTHER
YOU SEE THE BIG YOU ARE
BEDROOMS ONE AND TWO AND BE THE
NEXT FLOOR PLAN SHOWS OF THE
OTHER FOUR BEDROOMS ON THE
SECOND FLOOR NOT PART OF THE
EDITION WHICH IS ON THE
BASEMENT LEVEL AND THE FIRST
FLOOR THESE ARE THE PHOTOS
OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY AND
UPON MY INSPECTION YOU SEE THE
FRONT OF THE HOUSE YOU SEE THE
WEST SIDE OF THE HOUSE LOOKING
DOWN IT AND YOU CAN KIND OF SEE
THE SLOPING TERRAIN AND THE
DIFFERENCE IN ELEVATION AND
THIS IS LOOKING UP THE STREET.
YOU SEE THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN BUILDING IN THE
BACKGROUND.
THIS IS THE REAR OF THE FACADE
AND THE PROPOSED AREA WHERE THE
ADDITIONS ARE GOING TO BE BACK
HERE AND THE BACKYARD AND MORE
OF THE BACKYARD AND WHERE THE
PROPOSED ADDITIONS ARE GOING TO
BE IN RELATIONSHIP.
&gt;&gt; THE ADJACENT PROPERTIES AND
SOME MORE OF THE BACKYARD
LOOKING TO THE NORTH THAT IS
THE END OF MY PRESENTATION.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS YOU
HAVE AT THIS TIME.
THANKS, JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS?
&gt;&gt; THERE IS A DRIVEWAY TO THE
WEST OF THIS HOUSE AND IN SOME
OF THE PICTURES THERE WAS THE
RED CAR PARKED IN IT IN IS THAT
DRIVEWAY PART OF THIS LOT OR
THE ADJACENT LINE?
I BELIEVE IT&apos;S A SHARED
DRIVEWAY WITH THE WEST LOT.
WE CAN ASK THE APPLICANT THAT
THAT FROM WHAT I UNDERSTAND
THAT IS THE PARKING SHARED
DRIVEWAY WITH THE ADJACENT
PROPERTY TO THE WEST GATE.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONER IS READY, YOU
MAY BEGIN YOUR PRESENTATION.
&gt;&gt; YOU&apos;LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; I THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS ROBERT BURROWS
REPRESENTING THOSE PROPERTIES
THAT THE OWNER OF THE SITE
OWNER OF THE PROPERTY ADDRESSES
WITH OUR STUDIO ADDRESS TWO
THREE SEVEN THREE OK DRIVE IN
UPPER MICHIGAN FOR ONE, TWO,
THREE.
JOHN, THANK YOU AGAIN FOR A
VERY CLEAR, CONCISE AND DIRECT
PRESENTATION.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T HAVE MUCH TO ADD.
I SHOULD CLARIFY I CAN RESPOND
TO MR CLERIDES QUESTION.
I DO WANT TO CLARIFY THAT THE
ADDITION IS A TRUE STORY ON THE
BACK TO THAT SECOND FLOOR DOES
INDICATE TWO BEDROOMS IN THE
ADDITION TO ITSELF OFF THE
NORTH THE REAR SIDE OF THE
PROPERTY IT&apos;S A VERY TIGHT LOT
33 FOOT THE LOT ON THE CORNER
OF 5TH AND MADISON DOES CONTAIN
SHARED PARKING FOR BOTH
OF THOSE BOTH PARCELS.
SORRY I&apos;LL LET JOHN FLIP
THROUGH.
SO THAT IS ACTUALLY JUST TO
CLARIFY I APOLOGIZE ABOUT THAT
.
NO, NO.
THAT&apos;S WHY I&apos;M ATTEMPTING TO
CLARIFY IT IS VERY LIMITED TO
THE INTENT OF THE ADDITIONS IS
TO STEP BACK OR SHOULDERS BACK
FROM THE BUILDING BOTH FOR SO
WE HAVE COMPLETELY COMPLIANCE
OR OR EXCUSE ME DEFINITION
OF THE THE ADDITION OF BEING
PROPOSED SO IT DOES NOT STEP
INTO FURTHER INTRODUCE ANY
OF THIS EFFECT EMISSIONS.
IT DOES NOT GO INTO
A SETBACK
OF COURSE EITHER.
SO WE&apos;RE NOT FORCING ANY
ADDITIONAL LEVEL
OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
THE WEST PROPERTY PROPERTY HAS
POINTED OUT, JOHN, IF YOU
WOULDN&apos;T MIND GOING BACK TO THE
THE AERIAL THERE IS NO DRIVE OR
DEDICATED PARKING ON THIS
PROPERTY.
IT DOES IN FACT SHARE PARKING
AND ACCESS TO THAT PARKING
THROUGH THAT DRIVE AND THAT AND
THAT DRIVE A LOT OF THIS TIME I
HAVE NOTHING ELSE TO ADD IN
TERMS OF COMMENTS AT THIS POINT
AND WE&apos;LL BE AVAILABLE FOR ANY
QUESTIONS MATH.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I WILL POINT OUT IF YOU LOOK AT
YOUR SHEET A FIVE AND YOU CAN
SEE IT THESE FOUR PLANTS YOU
SEE THERE&apos;S THE FOREFOOT ARE
FOUR INCH INSET THAT THEY&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT SO IT WON&apos;T
ENCROACH ANY FURTHER INTO THE
SIDES THAT BACKS THAN THE
EXISTING HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; YOU SEE THE HOUSE LINES HERE
AND THEN THERE&apos;S A FOUR INCH
GAP OR A SIX INCH.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, SIX INCH.
I WAS GOING TO CORRECT THAT BUT
IT IS SIX AND ANY QUESTIONS FOR
THE PETITIONER?
&gt;&gt; THE QUESTION FOR THE
PETITIONER IS THE ADJACENT LOT
TO THE WEST IS THAT OWNED BY
THE SAME PROPERTY OWNER IT IS
OWNED THE SAME PROPERTY OWNER,
YES.
&gt;&gt; SO THE SHARED PARKING IS IN
THEIR CONTROL.
THAT&apos;S ABSOLUTELY THE SAME
CONTROL AS THIS OWNER IS THAT
YOU&apos;RE WORKING FOR 100 PERCENT
CORRECT?
YES.
THANK THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK IF THERE&apos;S ANYONE FROM
THE PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
ON THIS PETITION, PLEASE COME
FORWARD, STATE YOUR NAME FOR
THE RECORD AND SIGN IN.
YOU&apos;LL HAVE THREE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
HI, MY NAME IS PAUL.
HE&apos;S BEEN SINCE I LIVE ON FIVE
FOUR OR FIVE S FIFTH AVENUE
THAT IS JUST UP THE HILL FROM
THIS PROPERTY AND SO COMPARED
TO ALL THE OTHER PROJECTS YOU
HAVE CONSIDERED TONIGHT THIS IS
YOUR BACK ADDITION ON STEROIDS
.
IT&apos;S A THREE STORY ADDITION.
IT IN REALITY IT ADDS EIGHT
BEDROOMS TO TO A SMALL HOUSE
AND SOLD AND IT&apos;S NOT
CONFORMING.
WE CAN&apos;T DO ANYTHING ABOUT THE
EXISTING STRUCTURE BUT THE
ADDITION IS NONCONFORMING AND
SO AND IT&apos;S THEREFORE ILLEGAL
IN SOMEBODY TO PLAY SO THAT
THIS WOULD NOT CHANGE THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I DON&apos;T THINK THAT WAS WRITTEN
BY SOMEBODY WHO KNOWS THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT&apos;S A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT&apos;S VERY
DIVERSE.
IT HAS PROFESSIONALS A LOT
OF GRADUATE STUDENTS, A LOT
OF PEOPLE LIVED THERE FOR MANY
YEARS.
THERE&apos;S EVEN SOME GRAY HAIRED
ONES WHO LIVE THERE AND SO IT&apos;S
VERY DIVERSE AND IT INCLUDES
SOME UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS AS
WELL.
BUT JAMMING IN THIS MANY INTO A
SMALL BUILDING WILL SEVERELY
IMPACT THE WHOLE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND YOU MAY ALREADY SNIFFED IT
OUT THAT THERE&apos;S AN ISSUE OF IT
.
THE NEW OWNER NOT ONLY BOUGHT
TWO HOUSES, THEY BOUGHT FIVE
HOUSE LAST SUMMER THAT ALL
SERVED BUT THIS PARKING LOT.
SO THERE&apos;S A SERIOUS CRUNCH
WITH DOING THIS TYPE OF ILLEGAL
ADMISSIONS ON ALL KINDS
OF RESOURCES.
PROBABLY THE ONE WE&apos;RE MOST
WORRIED ABOUT IS THAT IF YOU
LOOK AT THE ACTUAL BEDROOM PLAN
AND LAYOUT, WHO WHAT WILL THESE
PEOPLE DO THE MINUTE IT GETS
WARM ENOUGH TO GO OUTSIDE THEY
WILL NOT HANG OUT IN THEIR
BEDROOM.
THEY&apos;LL GO OUT TO THOSE
BACKYARDS THAT IT&apos;S ONE OF THE
LARGEST GREEN SPACE PRIVATELY
OWNED IN DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR AND
THAT WILL AFFECT EVERYBODY WHO
LIVES ON ON ON THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
&gt;&gt; SO BASICALLY IF YOU VOTE FOR
THIS DEVIATION, YOU ARE
BASICALLY GIVING IN TO THE
ECONOMIC FORCES THAT CONVERT IN
WHOLE BLOCKS OF DOWNTOWN INTO
STUDENT GHETTO AND CURRENTLY
IT&apos;S NOT THAT BUT THIS AND IF
THEY WILL USE YOUR IF YOU
DECIDE TO GIVE ADMITTANCE TODAY
THIS IS PRECEDENT TO DO THE
SAME THING TO THE OTHER FIVE
HOUSES AND THE NEIGHBORHOOD IS
LOST AT THAT POINT.
SO I APPRECIATE YOUR JUDGMENT
AND YOUR LONG TERM VIEW ON THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD BUT IT&apos;S ON A
VASTLY DIFFERENT SCALE THAN
WHAT YOU HAVE DECIDED ON IN THE
LAST AND THE REST OF THE YEAR.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
I GUESS THE QUESTION YEAH.
GO AHEAD SIR.
I ONLY GOT YOUR FIRST NAME
CARLOS SO I DIDN&apos;T INTRODUCE
CLOUD USE CLOUD I CLAUDIUS OK.
OH OK.
SORRY SO CAN YOU EXPAND ON A
MORE IN YOUR STATEMENT.
I&apos;M NOT I DON&apos;T REALLY
LOGICALLY FOLLOW WHAT YOUR
CONTENTION THAT BY YOU PUT IT
CRAMMING A BUNCH OF PEOPLE IN
THIS LITTLE HOUSE WILL IN FACT
THE ENTIRE NEIGHBORHOOD COULD
YOU EXPLAIN THAT AND ALSO MAKE
IT PERSONAL IS IN TERMS
OF WHERE YOUR PROPERTY IS?
&gt;&gt; SO SO MAYBE SOMEBODY IT&apos;S
RIGHT ON THE NORTH END OF THE
SITE PLAN THAT THAT&apos;S PUBLISHED
SO SO AUERBACK IS ADJOINING TO
THESE BACKYARDS OF THOSE FIVE
HOUSES.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU HAVE A FENCE BETWEEN
YOUR THERE&apos;S A FENCE A LINK
FENCE SO WE CAN&apos;T GET INTO YOUR
PROPERTY.
YOU DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT DRUNKARDS
CAN DO BUT YES IN PRINCIPLE YES
OK YEAH AND A NICE BUT BUT HOW
WOULD IT AFFECT THE ENTIRE
NEIGHBORHOOD SO BECAUSE THERE&apos;S
SO THIS THIS IS A LARGE AREA SO
THERE IS FIVE HOUSES OWNED BY
THIS COMPANY THEN COMES OUR
HOUSE AND THEN THERE&apos;S FURTHER
HOUSES UP THE HILL THAT ARE ALL
IMPACTED BY THE NOISE THAT AS
WELL.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHAT I&apos;M ASKING THE
NOISE IN OTHER WORDS.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
&gt;&gt; THE PARKING OBVIOUSLY IS
ALSO AN ISSUE THE THE THE
PARKING LOT THAT THEY HAVE
THERE IS NOT BIG ENOUGH FOR
FIVE HOUSES AND ALL THE PEOPLE
THERE AND WHAT NOISE DERBY BEER
PONG NOISE SPECIFIC.
OK THANK YOU SIR.
THANK YOU CHRIS DID YOU HAVE A
QUESTION AS WELL AND SIR WE AT
THIS POINT WE GET TO ASK YOU
QUOTE SORRY SIR.
SO YOU ARE THE OWNER OCCUPIER
OF THE HOUSE THAT&apos;S ADJACENT TO
THE NORTH.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
SO WE AT THE HOUSE HAVE TO
APARTMENT AND WE LIVE UPSTAIRS
AND WE HAVE RENTED THE
DOWNSTAIRS TO PROFESSIONALS FOR
MORE THAN 30 YEARS OR GRADUATE
STUDENTS AND OBVIOUSLY WE ARE
CONCERNED THAT THAT TYPE
OF OCCUPANCY WILL BECOME
DIFFICULT TO MAKE.
SO I&apos;M STILL NOT CLEAR ON YOU
ARE IMMEDIATELY TO THE NORTH
RIGHT?
YEAH OK.
AND WHAT ROUGHLY IS THE SIZE
OF YOUR LOT OF BOY JOHN CAN YOU
GO BACK HOME?
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S PRETTY BIG BUT IT
GOES IT BACKS UP.
IT&apos;S THE SAME HERE WHEN I LOOK
AT THE GUY&apos;S MAP IT LOOKS LIKE
YOUR BACKYARD COULD BE ROUGHLY
THE SAME SIZE IS THEIR LOT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I LIKE THEY LIKE THE
LOT OF THOSE TWO HOUSES JUST
SOUTH OF US THEY SORT OF ARE
BUILT ON THE SAME PARCEL I
THINK AND CERTAINLY THE
BACKYARD COASTAL BACK THAT SORT
OF SIMILAR SIZE THIS PROPERTY
OWNER OR BIGGER HOUSE NOW THAT
THEY&apos;RE REDEVELOPED.
RIGHT.
AND HOW LONG AGO DID YOU BUY A
PIECE OF PROPERTY?
WE BOUGHT IT IN 1992 AND AT
THAT POINT THE UNIVERSITY WAS
THERE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THEY HAVE SINCE BUILT
THE ADDITION THE BUILDING
ADDITION FOR A LONG TIME THAT
BUILDING WAS ACTUALLY ALMOST
NOT USED.
IT WAS EMPTY THEN ANYWAY AND
THEN THEY IN SOUTH DAKOTA WAS
STILL THERE.
WELL THAT&apos;S WHEN WAS STILL
THERE AND THAT NEIGHBORHOOD HAS
BEEN STUDENT HOUSING FOR
DECADES BECAUSE THAT RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; NO, NO, IT HAS BEEN THAT&apos;S
EXACTLY MY POINT.
IT HAS BEEN VERY MIXED AND AND
AND CERTAINLY NOT THE
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT HEAVY
IMPACT I USED TO DO ON SNOW
REMOVAL IN THAT NEIGHBORHOOD
AND THE VAST MAJORITY OF THOSE
PROPERTIES WERE NOT
OWNER-OCCUPIED RATHER THEY WERE
RENTED OUT.
YEAH.
THAT THESE THESE FIVE HOUSES
OWNED BUT OWNED BY WHAT WAS A
MAILMAN IN ANOTHER AND
UNFORTUNATELY PASSED AWAY ABOUT
TEN YEARS AGO BY NOW AND THAT&apos;S
HOW THIS CAME TO FRUITION AND
HE CAREFULLY MANAGED A
NEIGHBORHOOD BY CHOOSING HIS
RENTERS SO THAT THERE WAS A
NICE MIX OF STUDENTS
PROFESSIONALS ON THE LANDLORDS
AND HE WENT EVEN FURTHER THAN
ANY LANDLORD WOULD GO AND
CHATTED WITH THEM, TOOK CARE
OF THE PROBLEMS AND AND WHAT
THIS CONSTITUTES IS A COMPLETE
REVERSAL OF THAT.
SO I JUST YOU MADE SOME CLAIMS
AND I JUST WANT TO ELUCIDATE
THAT EVEN THIRTY YEARS AGO THIS
WAS A YES YES.
BUT BUT THERE ARE DIFFERENT
KINDS OF ARRANGEMENTS AND AND
AND JUST LOOK AT THE FLOOR PLAN
OF THIS PROPOSAL AND IT TELLS
YOU WHAT WHAT PEOPLE THEN THOSE
BEDROOMS AND THERE WERE THE SIX
BEDS WHERE THEY INCREASED NOT
SIX BEDROOMS IS AT THE END.
&gt;&gt; SO THERE&apos;S CURRENTLY TWO
BEDROOMS PER UNIT AND IT&apos;S
GOING TO GO TO SIX BEDROOMS PER
UNIT.
SO THERE&apos;S FOUR THAT
FOUR IN
EACH FOR EACH PARTY AND THIS IS
THE FIRST OF FIVE HOUSES.
SO I THINK YOU CAN SEE IF
THERE&apos;S ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES
TO SPEAK ON THIS PETITION.
GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
I&apos;M BEVERLEY STRASSMAN AND I
LIVE FIVE FOUR FIVE SOUTH FIFTH
AVENUE.
THAT&apos;S THE PROPERTY THAT IS HAS
A BACKYARD THAT ABUTS THE NEXT
BACKYARD WHICH ABUTS THE
BACKYARD WHERE THIS ADDITION
WOULD BE BUILT AND PRESIDENT
OF THE GERMANTOWN NEIGHBORHOOD
ASSOCIATION AND I&apos;M SPEAKING ON
BEHALF OF THE ASSOCIATION AND
WE OPPOSE THIS PROPOSAL.
WHAT IT ENTAILS IS TAKING A
TWELVE HUNDRED AND SIXTY FIVE
SQUARE FOOT HOUSE AND ADDING
EIGHT BEDROOMS.
OK, IT HAS FOUR THEY&apos;RE ADDING
EIGHT TO TWELVE HUNDRED AND
SIXTY FIVE SQUARE FOOT HOUSE.
SO ESSENTIALLY WHAT&apos;S GOING TO
HAPPEN IS THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE
NOT ONE BUT NOW TWO SIX BEDROOM
UNITS OK TWO SIX BEDROOM UNITS
WHEN CURRENTLY THERE&apos;S ONLY TWO
TWO BEDROOM UNITS SO AN
INCREASE OF EIGHT BEDROOMS.
THIS PROPOSAL WILL HAVE A
DETRIMENTAL IMPACT ON
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES.
THIS IS THROUGH NOISE AND I&apos;M
GOING TO GIVE YOU A LIST.
PARTLY IT&apos;S THROUGH NOISE.
STUDENTS PLAY THEIR RECORD
WHILE PEOPLE RECORD PLAYERS
ANYMORE WHATEVER THEY MAKE
MUSIC WITH THEIR COMPUTERS,
THEY PLAY IT.
THEY HAVE THEIR WINDOWS OPEN.
THEY HAVE PARTIES.
THEY HAVE A RIGHT TO DO THAT.
BUT IT&apos;S GOING TO ADVERSELY
IMPACT US.
IT WILL AFFECT MY SLEEP.
IT WILL AFFECT MY HEALTH.
IT WILL AFFECT MY SAFETY HAVING
INEBRIATED BEER PONG PLAYERS
RIGHT NEXT DOOR TO US, I THINK
THAT IF YOU IMAGINE WHAT IT
WOULD BE LIKE FOR YOU TO
SUDDENLY HAVE TWO SIX BEDROOM
UNITS RIGHT NEXT TO YOUR HOUSE,
YOU WOULDN&apos;T HAVE TO THINK TOO
HARD ABOUT HOW THAT WOULD
ADVERSELY IMPACT YOU.
OK, WE&apos;VE BEEN OWNER-OCCUPIED
WE BOUGHT THE HOUSE IN NINETEEN
NINETY FOUR RICHARD JACOBSON
AND MARIANNE ZORZI LIVE ON THE
BLOCK.
THERE&apos;S BEEN WALTER SPILLAR
THERE&apos;S BEEN AN ATTORNEY I
FORGET HIS NAME AT THE END
OF THE BLOCK THERE&apos;S IN OUR
NEXT DOOR NEIGHBOR JOHN WHO&apos;S
LIVED THERE.
THERE WAS AN ELDERLY MAN WHO
DIED AND AN ELDERLY WOMAN WHO
DIED.
THIS HAS TRULY NOT JUST BEEN A
STUDENT NEIGHBORHOOD AND TO THE
EXTENT THAT IT&apos;S BEEN A STUDENT
NEIGHBORHOOD, IT&apos;S BEEN
GRADUATE STUDENTS.
THERE&apos;S LOTS OF YOUNG
PROFESSIONALS.
I DON&apos;T AGREE WITH THE
CHARACTERIZATION THAT THIS
EDITION WILL BLEND IN WITH A
STUDENT ORIENTED HOUSING AREA.
I SEE THE IMPLICATION THAT IT&apos;S
ALREADY NOISY.
IT&apos;S ALREADY KIND OF ONE
OF THOSE SACRIFICE ZONES.
THAT&apos;S NOT TRUE.
I&apos;M A FACULTY MEMBER LIKE MANY
OF MY NEIGHBORS.
I NEED TO LIVE CLOSE TO CAMPUS
.
A LOT OF GRADUATE STUDENTS NEED
TO LIVE CLOSE TO CAMPUS.
THIS IS ONE THE LAST PLACES IN
ANN ARBOR WHERE YOU CAN BE IN A
NICE QUIET NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE
TO CAMPUS FOR THOSE OF US WHO
HAVE TO GET IN MAYBE FEED CELLS
IN CULTURE, THINGS LIKE THAT,
THE DEMANDER ARE BEING IN
PROXIMITY SO SO THAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S
GOING TO BE LOST.
OUR OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE A NICE
QUIET NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE OUR
HEALTH AND SAFETY IS PROTECTED
,ILLEGAL PARKING IN FRONT
OF OUR HOUSE.
IT&apos;S A STEEP HILL THAT
THREATENS OUR SAFETY AND WHAT
ELSE CAN I SAY IN 30 SECONDS
PLEASE VOTE NO FOR THIS.
IT&apos;S TOO MUCH FOR THIS LOT THE
THE CHARACTERIZATION OF THE
EXISTING OCCUPANCY THAT&apos;S
SUBJECT TO VERIFICATION.
WE KNOW WHO OUR NEIGHBORS ARE.
THEY&apos;VE NOT BEEN UNDERGRADUATE
STUDENTS EXCLUSIVELY
UNDERGRADUATES STUDENTS ARE
THERE AS MY COLLEAGUE SAID
THERE IT&apos;S MIXED.
SO PLEASE VOTE NO FOR THIS AND
THAT&apos;S ALL I HAVE TO SAY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS?
THERE&apos;S ANYONE WHO WISHES TO
SPEAK ON THIS PETITION.
THERE&apos;S NO ONE HERE.
BUT IF THERE&apos;S ANYONE REMOTELY
PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND OR
PESTANA STAFF WILL CALL ON YOU
EMIL JONES.
HELLO.
&gt;&gt; HELLO.
MY NAME IS DANIEL JONES AND I
AM THE SOLE OWNER OF THE PARCEL
IN QUESTION THE PETITION
PASSELL AND I HAVE A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS AND A COUPLE
OF POINTS.
THERE&apos;S BEEN A LOT OF TALK
ABOUT HOW WE SHOULD MAKE SURE
THAT WE STEER THESE RENTALS
TOWARD GRAD STUDENTS OR
PROFESSIONALS IN MY PROFESSION
WHAT IS ILLEGAL IS FOR ME TO
STEER TOWARD A PARTICULAR SOCIO
OR ECONOMIC OR EDUCATIONAL
STANDARDS THAT IS ILLEGAL.
I AM ASKING FOR A A A EXCEPTION
OR A VARIANCE TO THE ZONING
ORDINANCE.
I&apos;M NOT TRYING TO DO ANYTHING
ILLEGAL.
WHAT I AM ENCOURAGING WHAT I
HEAR IS ENCOURAGEMENT THAT WE
CONTINUE TO DO ILLEGAL
PRACTICES WHICH IS STERIA MY
OWN DAUGHTER IS MOVING INTO THE
HOUSE NEXT DOOR TO THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY.
&gt;&gt; HER AND HER BOYFRIEND WHO
ARE BOTH STUDENTS AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S ALSO BEEN A LOT
OF TALK ABOUT INEBRIATED
TENANTS AND I THINK THAT
THERE&apos;S A YOU KNOW, THERE IS A
HISTORY FOR SURE ABOUT
INEBRIATED YOUNGER FOLKS BUT
THERE ARE PLENTY OF CREATED
OLDER FOLKS AS WELL AND I THINK
IT&apos;S AN UNFAIR ASSUMPTION THAT
ANY UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT IS
GOING TO BE IN QUOTES AND
INEBRIATED BEER PONG PLAYER.
THEY HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY.
ANYBODY WHO IS A NEIGHBOR HAS A
RESPONSIBILITY TO UPHOLD THE
ORDINANCES WITHIN THE CITY
BANNER AT ALL TIMES.
I WAS HANDPICKED BY WALCHER
SPILLERS SISTER WHO INHERITED
THESE PROPERTIES AS I TOO KNEW
WALTER SPILLAR, I WAS
HANDPICKED TO PURCHASE THESE
PROPERTIES BECAUSE I HAVE A
REPUTATION FOR ONE TO NOT TEAR
UP AND DISREGARD NEIGHBORHOODS
AND THOSE PROPERTIES THAT ARE
WITHIN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU REALIZE THAT THIS IS
A STEP TOWARD DEVELOPMENT 30
SECONDS THERE ARE MORE
SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS THAT
COULD BE ASKED FOR IN THIS
SITUATION CUMULATIVELY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES TO
SPEAK ON THIS PETITION PLEASE
RAISE YOUR HAND.
THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
THANK YOU KRISTIN.
WITH THAT THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
CHRIS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I WOULD LIKE TO
APPALLED MR. JONES COMMENTS
ABOUT DISPARAGING PEOPLE WHO
HAVE A RIGHT TO RENT A SPACE
AND I GUESS IF THE ISSUE AT
HAND IS THE NEIGHBORS DON&apos;T
LIKE WHO&apos;S RENTING THEIR I DARE
SAY THAT THEY PROBABLY HAD AN
OPPORTUNITY MAYBE MAYBE NOT.
BUT I HAVE A SNEAKING SUSPICION
THAT THIS PROBLEM THESE
PROPERTIES WERE AVAILABLE TO
THE PUBLIC.
MAYBE I&apos;M WRONG.
YOU&apos;RE WRONG.
OK, BUT NONETHELESS I THINK MR.
JONES BRINGS UP A REALLY GOOD
POINT.
THAT IS IT IS ILLEGAL FOR HIM
TO STEER PROPERTIES OR PEOPLE
TO CERTAIN PROPERTIES AND I
WOULD LIKE TO UNDERSCORE THAT.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; OK, I MEAN I&apos;LL JUST SAY
RIGHT THIS ALTERATION TO NOT
CONFORMING IT&apos;S NOT INCREASING
THE FOOTPRINT.
YES IT IS.
IT IS BUT IT&apos;S NOT OUTSIDE OR
SORRY I APOLOGIZE WHAT&apos;S
INCREASING THE NUMBER
OF BEDROOMS BUT IT&apos;S NOT
ENCROACHING FURTHER INTO THE
SETBACKS.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT RIGHT.
SORRY THAT WAS THE BUILDING
BELOW.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHERE I MET THE
BUILDING DOWN BELOW.
I DON&apos;T CARE WHO GETS WHO GETS
RENT IT TO HERE.
THERE&apos;S OTHER ORDINANCES TO
DEAL WITH NOISE LIKE A FEAR
OF PEOPLE BEING LOUD IN THEIR
BACKYARD IS NEVER GOING TO
CAUSE ME TO NOT VOTE FOR
SOMETHING ON THIS BOARD.
I&apos;M YOU KNOW IT COULD BE LOUD
UNDERGRADS.
IT COULD BE QUIET UNDERGRADS
COULD BE LOUD GRAD STUDENTS IT
CAN BE QUIET GRAD STUDENTS IT
COULD BE LOUD PROFESSIONALS.
IT COULD BE QUIET
PROFESSIONALS.
IT COULD BE LOUD RETIREES.
IT COULD BE QUIET RETIREES.
THREATS OF NOISE ARE NOT IN OUR
PURVIEW.
SO I&apos;M GOING TO BE VOTING YES
ON THIS.
&gt;&gt; JULIE OOPS.
&gt;&gt; THERE WE GO.
YES, I UNDERSTAND THE CONCERNS
OF NEIGHBORS THAT IT IS
FRIGHTENING WHEN SOMEBODY NEW
COMES IN AND BUYS UP BUILDINGS
AND HAS BASICALLY A GOAL
OF MAKING PROFIT BECAUSE THAT&apos;S
WHY YOU BECOME A LANDLORD.
&gt;&gt; BUT I THINK LOOKING LONG
TERM IN THE CITY DOES HAVE A
GOAL OF REDUCING ITS
CARBON .
THE WAY TO DO THAT IS TO HAVE
THE CENTER OF THE CITY BECOME
EVEN DENSER THAN IT IS.
AND THE WAY TO DO THAT IS TO
REDUCE THE AMOUNT OF PARKING
AVAILABLE THAT THERE&apos;S NOT
AVAILABLE PARKING SPOTS FOR.
NOT EVERYBODY IS GOING TO BE
ABLE TO HAVE A CAR IF WE&apos;RE
GOING TO REDUCE CLIMATE CHANGE.
SO I THINK LOOKING FORWARD THIS
DOES TOTALLY FIT IN AND THE ONE
THING TO TAKE UNDER
CONSIDERATION WHEN WE&apos;RE DOING
THE ALTERATION TO A
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE IS WHAT
THE NEIGHBORS SAY.
&gt;&gt; BUT IN THIS CASE I&apos;M
CONCERNED THAT THE NEIGHBORS
HAVE SAID THINGS THAT DO COME
CLOSE TO VIOLATING THE FAIR
HOUSING LAW AND TO SAY NO, NO,
I&apos;M SORRY MA&apos;AM.
I&apos;M SORRY THAT THE PUBLIC
HEARING EXCUSE ME THE PUBLIC
HEARING WHAT WE WERE THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED.
&gt;&gt; THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; SO I I DO AM IN FAVOR
OF DIVERSE NEIGHBORHOODS.
I&apos;M IN FAVOR OF DENSITY
DOWNTOWN SO I&apos;M GOING TO VOTE
FOR THIS DE I&apos;M AFRAID I&apos;M
FIGHTING A LOSING BATTLE.
I&apos;VE ALWAYS BEEN IN FAVOR
OF HISTORIC NATURE OF SOME
OF THE NEAR DOWNTOWN AND NEAR
CAMPUS NEIGHBORHOODS RETAINING
SOME OF THEIR HISTORIC NATURE.
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD HISTORICALLY
REFERRED TO IS THE GERMANTOWN
NEIGHBORHOOD HAS SEEN
SIGNIFICANT CHANGES, INCREASED
DENSITY, MORE PARKING PROBLEMS
,ALTERATIONS TO NONCONFORMING
USES DO GIVE US LATITUDE BUT
IT&apos;S CLEAR TO ME THAT THIS IN
MY OPINION WILL HAVE A
DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON
NEIGHBORING PROPERTY.
&gt;&gt; OTHER CHANGES WITHIN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD ALREADY HAD
DETRIMENTAL EFFECTS ON NEIGHBOR
NEIGHBORING PROPERTY.
I&apos;M NOT IN FAVOR OF DENSITY FOR
DENSITY SAKE AND I&apos;M AFRAID
THAT INCREASINGLY THAT&apos;S WHAT
WE&apos;RE SEEING THAT PEOPLE ARE
JUST SAYING OH DENSITY DENSITY
AND WE&apos;RE SEEING IS TWENTY 15
STORY BUILDING IS 17 STORY
BUILDINGS PROPOSED AND YOU KNOW
IT&apos;S OK.
I THINK IT&apos;S HARD TO CLOSE THE
BARN DOOR AFTER THE HORSE IS
OUT AND I THINK A LOT OF THESE
THINGS IN D ONE AND D TO ZONING
THESE TALL BUILDINGS ARE
HAPPENING AND THEY&apos;RE GOING TO
HAPPEN.
MY FEAR IS THAT WE CHANGE THESE
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT HAVE TWO
THREE STORY WOOD FRAME
CONSTRUCTION THAT ARE HISTORIC
AND GIVE THE CITY CHARACTER
I&apos;LL BE VOTING AGAINST THIS I&apos;M
AFRAID BECAUSE THERE&apos;S SUCH
STRONG SENTIMENT IN FAVOR
OF DENSITY FOR DENSITY SAY NO
MATTER WHAT EFFECT IT HAS ON
NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES, NO
PARKING ON STREET PARKING IN
MATTER WHAT EFFECT IT HAS ON
THE NEIGHBORHOOD, NO MATTER ALL
PARKING ON STREET PARKING IN
THE EXTRA DEMANDS ON
THE NEIGHBORHOOD, NO MATTER ALL
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT IT PLACES
THE EXTRA DEMANDS ON
ON OUR COMMUNITY, I THINK THAT
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT IT PLACES
THESE SORTS OF THINGS ARE GOING
ON OUR COMMUNITY, I THINK THAT
TO CONTINUE TO PASS BUT I WOULD
THESE SORTS OF THINGS ARE GOING
HOPE THAT PEOPLE WILL AGREE
TO CONTINUE TO PASS BUT I WOULD
WITH ME THAT THERE IS SOMETHING
HOPE THAT PEOPLE WILL AGREE
TO BE PRESERVED HERE AND I&apos;LL
WITH ME THAT THERE IS SOMETHING
BE VOTING AGAINST THIS.
TO BE PRESERVED HERE AND I&apos;LL
IT IS A NON CONFORMING USE.
BE VOTING AGAINST THIS.
IT&apos;S TOTALLY WITHIN THE RIGHTS
IT IS A NON CONFORMING USE.
OF THIS ZONING BOARD TO DENY
IT&apos;S TOTALLY WITHIN THE RIGHTS
ALTERATIONS TO NONCONFORMING
OF THIS ZONING BOARD TO DENY
USES, ESPECIALLY IF WE
ALTERATIONS TO NONCONFORMING
DETERMINE THAT IT HAS A
USES, ESPECIALLY IF WE
DETRIMENTAL EFFECT NEIGHBORING
DETERMINE THAT IT HAS A
PROPERTY.
DETRIMENTAL EFFECT NEIGHBORING
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;LL BE VOTING AGAINST
PROPERTY.
THIS WELL WITH A LOT TO THINK
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;LL BE VOTING AGAINST
ABOUT HERE.
THIS WELL WITH A LOT TO THINK
IT&apos;S EVER SINCE UNIVERSALIZE
ABOUT HERE.
HAD BEEN IN EXISTENCE WHETHER
IT&apos;S EVER SINCE UNIVERSALIZE
IT WAS IN EUROPE IN THE MIDDLE
HAD BEEN IN EXISTENCE WHETHER
AGES AND CERTAINLY THE ENTIRE
IT WAS IN EUROPE IN THE MIDDLE
HISTORY OF BEING IBER HAS
AGES AND CERTAINLY THE ENTIRE
ALWAYS BEEN TOWN GOWN FRICTION
HISTORY OF BEING IBER HAS
AND AGAINST THAT OF COURSE IS
ALWAYS BEEN TOWN GOWN FRICTION
THAT THE UNIVERSITY IS THE
AND AGAINST THAT OF COURSE IS
ENGINE THAT DRIVES THE ANN
THAT THE UNIVERSITY IS THE
ARBOR ECONOMICALLY.
ENGINE THAT DRIVES THE ANN
YES, THERE ARE OTHER COMPANIES
ARBOR ECONOMICALLY.
BUT THE BIG GODZILLA IN ANN
YES, THERE ARE OTHER COMPANIES
ARBOR IS THE UNIVERSITY AND
BUT THE BIG GODZILLA IN ANN
WHERE A STUDENT IS GOING TO BE
ARBOR IS THE UNIVERSITY AND
WHEN THEY DON&apos;T HAVE CARS IS
WHERE A STUDENT IS GOING TO BE
THAT A PLACE THAT&apos;S WITHIN
WHEN THEY DON&apos;T HAVE CARS IS
WALKING DISTANCE AND THE
THAT A PLACE THAT&apos;S WITHIN
UNIVERSITY HAS INCREASED
WALKING DISTANCE AND THE
ENROLLMENT?
UNIVERSITY HAS INCREASED
THERE ARE MORE STUDENTS AND I
ENROLLMENT?
DO AGREE WITH DAVE THAT DENSITY
THERE ARE MORE STUDENTS AND I
JUST FOR DENSITY SAKE DOES
DO AGREE WITH DAVE THAT DENSITY
EFFECTS ON A NEIGHBORHOOD.
JUST FOR DENSITY SAKE DOES
IT CHANGES THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
EFFECTS ON A NEIGHBORHOOD.
&gt;&gt; BUT THIS WOULD BE THE PLACE
IT CHANGES THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
WHERE IF THE CITY WERE TO GROW
&gt;&gt; BUT THIS WOULD BE THE PLACE
MORE DENSE AND IT HAS IS WHERE
WHERE IF THE CITY WERE TO GROW
IT SHOULD GROW MORE DENSE.
MORE DENSE AND IT HAS IS WHERE
CERTAINLY THE LARGE APARTMENT
IT SHOULD GROW MORE DENSE.
BUILDINGS FOR RICH STUDENTS IN
CERTAINLY THE LARGE APARTMENT
THIS TOWN THAT HAD A LARGE
BUILDINGS FOR RICH STUDENTS IN
IMPACT ON THE SMALL HOUSES NEXT
THIS TOWN THAT HAD A LARGE
TO THEM AND IT DOES HAVE A MID
IMPACT ON THE SMALL HOUSES NEXT
CHANGES THE NEIGHBORHOOD BUT I
TO THEM AND IT DOES HAVE A MID
DON&apos;T THINK THAT IN THIS CASE
CHANGES THE NEIGHBORHOOD BUT I
SOMEBODY TO SAY THAT IT HAS A
DON&apos;T THINK THAT IN THIS CASE
DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON THE
SOMEBODY TO SAY THAT IT HAS A
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I DO HAVE A
DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON THE
LITTLE BIT OF HESITATION.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I DO HAVE A
I WOULD NOT WANT TO LIVE NEXT
LITTLE BIT OF HESITATION.
TO A FRATERNITY.
I WOULD NOT WANT TO LIVE NEXT
I HAVE A VERY NEGATIVE OPINION
TO A FRATERNITY.
ABOUT FRATERNITIES I THINK THEY
I HAVE A VERY NEGATIVE OPINION
SHOULD BE GOTTEN RID OF BUT
ABOUT FRATERNITIES I THINK THEY
THAT&apos;S MY OWN PERSONAL OPINION
SHOULD BE GOTTEN RID OF BUT
PREJUDICED SOME PEOPLE MIGHT
THAT&apos;S MY OWN PERSONAL OPINION
SAY.
PREJUDICED SOME PEOPLE MIGHT
BUT I&apos;M NOT WILLING TO PASTE
SAY.
ALL STUDENTS WITH THE LABEL
BUT I&apos;M NOT WILLING TO PASTE
THAT AT THREE O&apos;CLOCK THEY&apos;RE
ALL STUDENTS WITH THE LABEL
GOING TO BE OUT HERE STRIPPED
THAT AT THREE O&apos;CLOCK THEY&apos;RE
TO THEIR BRITTA&apos;S DRUNK AND
GOING TO BE OUT HERE STRIPPED
RUNNING AROUND THE STREET.
TO THEIR BRITTA&apos;S DRUNK AND
I DO KNOW BECAUSE YOU CAN&apos;T
RUNNING AROUND THE STREET.
DRINK WHEN YOU&apos;RE UNDER 21
I DO KNOW BECAUSE YOU CAN&apos;T
EVERYBODY THAT I SEE PLAYING
DRINK WHEN YOU&apos;RE UNDER 21
BEER PONG WHEN I BICYCLE AROUND
EVERYBODY THAT I SEE PLAYING
THE UNIVERSITY IS OBVIOUSLY
BEER PONG WHEN I BICYCLE AROUND
OVER 21 AS WE ALL KNOW.
THE UNIVERSITY IS OBVIOUSLY
BUT HUMOR ASIDE, I THINK THAT
OVER 21 AS WE ALL KNOW.
THE OWNER HAS A RIGHT TO DO
BUT HUMOR ASIDE, I THINK THAT
THIS.
THE OWNER HAS A RIGHT TO DO
I THINK IT WILL HAVE A CHANGE
THIS.
ON THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
I THINK IT WILL HAVE A CHANGE
BUT I&apos;M NOT WILLING TO SAY IN
ON THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
THIS CASE THAT JUST BECAUSE THE
BUT I&apos;M NOT WILLING TO SAY IN
LIKELY MARKET IS GOING TO BE
THIS CASE THAT JUST BECAUSE THE
STUDENTS BUT IT MIGHT BE OTHER
LIKELY MARKET IS GOING TO BE
FOLKS BUT IT&apos;S PROBABLY GOING
STUDENTS BUT IT MIGHT BE OTHER
TO BE STUDENTS THAT MEANS
FOLKS BUT IT&apos;S PROBABLY GOING
BECAUSE OF THEIR STATUS THE
TO BE STUDENTS THAT MEANS
STUDENT THAT THEY&apos;RE GOING TO
BECAUSE OF THEIR STATUS THE
HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT IN THAT
STUDENT THAT THEY&apos;RE GOING TO
CASE THE ENTIRE CAMPUS AREA
HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT IN THAT
WOULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON
CASE THE ENTIRE CAMPUS AREA
THE CITY BUT IT DOES NOT IS THE
WOULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON
ENGINE THAT DRIVES THE CITY.
THE CITY BUT IT DOES NOT IS THE
SO I UNDERSTAND WHAT DAVE IS
ENGINE THAT DRIVES THE CITY.
SAYING IF YOU GREW UP IN A
SO I UNDERSTAND WHAT DAVE IS
NEIGHBORHOOD IS TOUGH TO HAVE
SAYING IF YOU GREW UP IN A
THE CHANGE.
NEIGHBORHOOD IS TOUGH TO HAVE
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S ALWAYS DIFFICULT TO
THE CHANGE.
HAVE THE CHANGE.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S ALWAYS DIFFICULT TO
BUT I THINK THAT WITH THE LOOSE
HAVE THE CHANGE.
STANDARD OF A NONCONFORMIST
BUT I THINK THAT WITH THE LOOSE
STRUCTURE I&apos;M GOING TO VOTE IN
STANDARD OF A NONCONFORMIST
FAVOR OF THIS.
STRUCTURE I&apos;M GOING TO VOTE IN
BUT I THINK THERE&apos;S ALWAYS
FAVOR OF THIS.
GOING TO BE THIS TYPE OF FEAR
BUT I THINK THERE&apos;S ALWAYS
AND CONCERN.
GOING TO BE THIS TYPE OF FEAR
IT&apos;S ALWAYS GOING TO HAPPEN
AND CONCERN.
NEAR CAMPUS.
IT&apos;S ALWAYS GOING TO HAPPEN
IT&apos;S HAPPENED THROUGH THE
NEAR CAMPUS.
ENTIRE HISTORY OF THIS CITY.
IT&apos;S HAPPENED THROUGH THE
IT WILL CONTINUE TO HAPPEN
ENTIRE HISTORY OF THIS CITY.
PERSONALLY, HAVE NOT BEEN IN
IT WILL CONTINUE TO HAPPEN
FAVOR OF THESE BIG STRUCTURES
PERSONALLY, HAVE NOT BEEN IN
ALL OVER THE CITY BUT THAT&apos;S
FAVOR OF THESE BIG STRUCTURES
BEYOND MY POWER.
ALL OVER THE CITY BUT THAT&apos;S
&gt;&gt; THAT DECISION&apos;S BEEN MADE
BEYOND MY POWER.
WITH SOME CONCERN TO THE
&gt;&gt; THAT DECISION&apos;S BEEN MADE
CHANGES IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
WITH SOME CONCERN TO THE
I&apos;M NOT WILLING TO REJECT THIS
CHANGES IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
PROPOSAL.
I&apos;M NOT WILLING TO REJECT THIS
&gt;&gt; I WILL BE VOTING IN FAVOR
PROPOSAL.
OF IT.
&gt;&gt; I WILL BE VOTING IN FAVOR
CHRIS.
OF IT.
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF ANYONE ELSE
CHRIS.
ON THE BOARD IS BUT I&apos;M A
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF ANYONE ELSE
RENTER.
ON THE BOARD IS BUT I&apos;M A
I RENT IN ANN ARBOR.
RENTER.
I GUESS I&apos;M THE RIGHT KIND
I RENT IN ANN ARBOR.
OF RENTER BECAUSE MY WIFE AND I
I GUESS I&apos;M THE RIGHT KIND
ARE YOUNG PROFESSIONALS.
OF RENTER BECAUSE MY WIFE AND I
IT&apos;S BRUTAL OUT THERE.
ARE YOUNG PROFESSIONALS.
IT IS HARD TO FIND AN APARTMENT
IT&apos;S BRUTAL OUT THERE.
,A HOUSE, ANY KIND OF UNIT AT
IT IS HARD TO FIND AN APARTMENT
A PRICE THAT I CAN AFFORD.
,A HOUSE, ANY KIND OF UNIT AT
I HAVE A GRADUATE DEGREE.
A PRICE THAT I CAN AFFORD.
I HAVE A GOOD JOB.
I HAVE A GRADUATE DEGREE.
MY WIFE DOES TOO.
I HAVE A GOOD JOB.
IT IS EXPENSIVE IN THE CITY.
MY WIFE DOES TOO.
IT IS HARD THERE ARE LOTS
IT IS EXPENSIVE IN THE CITY.
OF STUDENTS, THERE ARE LOTS
IT IS HARD THERE ARE LOTS
OF YOUNG PROFESSIONALS.
OF STUDENTS, THERE ARE LOTS
THERE ARE LOTS OF YOUNG
OF YOUNG PROFESSIONALS.
PROFESSIONALS THAT JUST NEED A
THERE ARE LOTS OF YOUNG
PLACE TO LIVE AND I REALLY
PROFESSIONALS THAT JUST NEED A
REJECT THE IDEA THAT THIS WOULD
PLACE TO LIVE AND I REALLY
BE DENSITY FOR DENSITY SAKE WE
REJECT THE IDEA THAT THIS WOULD
NEED UNITS AND WE&apos;RE THE CITY
BE DENSITY FOR DENSITY SAKE WE
SHOULD BE DESPERATE FOR UNITS
NEED UNITS AND WE&apos;RE THE CITY
BECAUSE PEOPLE LIKE ME, PEOPLE
SHOULD BE DESPERATE FOR UNITS
WHO AREN&apos;T LIKE ME, THEY CAN&apos;T
BECAUSE PEOPLE LIKE ME, PEOPLE
AFFORD IT.
WHO AREN&apos;T LIKE ME, THEY CAN&apos;T
&gt;&gt; THEY&apos;RE GOING TO GO TO IPSI
AFFORD IT.
AND THEN IF HE&apos;S GOING TO GET
&gt;&gt; THEY&apos;RE GOING TO GO TO IPSI
EXPENSIVE BECAUSE EVERYONE FROM
AND THEN IF HE&apos;S GOING TO GET
ANN ARBOR WENT TIPSY SO THEY&apos;RE
EXPENSIVE BECAUSE EVERYONE FROM
GOING TO END UP IN THIS
ANN ARBOR WENT TIPSY SO THEY&apos;RE
TOWNSHIP AND YOU&apos;RE NEVER EVER
GOING TO END UP IN THIS
GOING TO HEAR FROM THOSE
TOWNSHIP AND YOU&apos;RE NEVER EVER
PEOPLE.
GOING TO HEAR FROM THOSE
YOU&apos;RE NOT GOING TO HEAR FROM
PEOPLE.
THE PEOPLE WHO BENEFIT FROM
YOU&apos;RE NOT GOING TO HEAR FROM
MORE UNITS ON THE MARKET.
THE PEOPLE WHO BENEFIT FROM
&gt;&gt; AND IT&apos;S NOT JUST FOR
MORE UNITS ON THE MARKET.
STUDENTS, RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; AND IT&apos;S NOT JUST FOR
THE MORE PLACES WE HAVE FOR
STUDENTS, RIGHT?
STUDENTS THE EASIER IT IS FOR
THE MORE PLACES WE HAVE FOR
ADULTS LOOKING FOR A PLACE TO
STUDENTS THE EASIER IT IS FOR
LIVE IN THE CITY AND I JUST THE
ADULTS LOOKING FOR A PLACE TO
IDEA THAT THAT ADDING PLACES TO
LIVE IN THE CITY AND I JUST THE
LIVE FOR PEOPLE IS BAD FOR THE
IDEA THAT THAT ADDING PLACES TO
NEIGHBORHOOD GOES AGAINST ALL
LIVE FOR PEOPLE IS BAD FOR THE
THAT I SEE GOOD IN PLANNING AND
NEIGHBORHOOD GOES AGAINST ALL
IT IS DISAPPOINTING TO HEAR
THAT I SEE GOOD IN PLANNING AND
PEOPLE SAY THAT YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S
IT IS DISAPPOINTING TO HEAR
THE ADDITION OF BEDS AND
PEOPLE SAY THAT YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S
DWELLING UNITS TO TO SOMETHING
THE ADDITION OF BEDS AND
THAT EXISTS IN WALKING DISTANCE
DWELLING UNITS TO TO SOMETHING
TO THE UNIVERSITY.
THAT EXISTS IN WALKING DISTANCE
THE CITY NEEDS THAT IT&apos;S NOT
TO THE UNIVERSITY.
BAD FOR THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE CITY NEEDS THAT IT&apos;S NOT
IT IS A PLUS FOR THE CITY IT IS
BAD FOR THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
A PLUS FOR THE PEOPLE WHO WORK
IT IS A PLUS FOR THE CITY IT IS
HERE.
A PLUS FOR THE PEOPLE WHO WORK
IT IS A PLUS FOR THE SERVICE
HERE.
WORKERS WHO NEED DWELLING UNITS
IT IS A PLUS FOR THE SERVICE
.
WORKERS WHO NEED DWELLING UNITS
HEY, YOU&apos;RE RIGHT.
.
THERE&apos;S NOT ENOUGH PARKING ON
HEY, YOU&apos;RE RIGHT.
SITE, YOU KNOW, BUT PEOPLE NEED
THERE&apos;S NOT ENOUGH PARKING ON
A PLACE TO LIVE.
SITE, YOU KNOW, BUT PEOPLE NEED
YOU KNOW, I&apos;M GOING TO VOTE YES
A PLACE TO LIVE.
AND I ENCOURAGE EVERYONE ELSE
YOU KNOW, I&apos;M GOING TO VOTE YES
TO DO SO TOO.
AND I ENCOURAGE EVERYONE ELSE
&gt;&gt; GOOD.
TO DO SO TOO.
MY ESTEEMED COLLEAGUE MR.
&gt;&gt; GOOD.
DIVERSITY BROUGHT UP A GOOD
MY ESTEEMED COLLEAGUE MR.
POINT.
DIVERSITY BROUGHT UP A GOOD
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A HISTORIC
POINT.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I THINK THE
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A HISTORIC
HERE IS THAT IT&apos;S ABOUT
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I THINK THE
HISTORY.
HERE IS THAT IT&apos;S ABOUT
&gt;&gt; NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO.
HISTORY.
IT&apos;S NOT HISTORICALLY
&gt;&gt; NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO.
DESIGNATED THAT FOR THE RECORD
IT&apos;S NOT HISTORICALLY
THAT&apos;S ACTUALLY WHAT I WANT TO
DESIGNATED THAT FOR THE RECORD
SAY.
THAT&apos;S ACTUALLY WHAT I WANT TO
&gt;&gt; IT HAS HISTORIC NATURE
SAY.
TECHNICALLY IT&apos;S NOT A HISTORIC
&gt;&gt; IT HAS HISTORIC NATURE
NEIGHBORHOOD BUT TO THE TO THE
TECHNICALLY IT&apos;S NOT A HISTORIC
PEOPLE THAT CAME UP AND SPOKE,
NEIGHBORHOOD BUT TO THE TO THE
I WOULD SAY IF YOU FEEL THAT
PEOPLE THAT CAME UP AND SPOKE,
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
I WOULD SAY IF YOU FEEL THAT
SHOULDN&apos;T BE HAPPENING IN YOUR
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD
, CREATE A HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
THERE ISN&apos;T ONE THERE.
THERE ARE MANY BLOCKS AROUND
WHERE THERE IS NO HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
BUT YOU ARE CORRECT, IT&apos;S A
SIGNIFICANT SPACE.
&gt;&gt; IT HAS ITS OWN NAME THAT IT
HAS OLD HOUSES THAT NEED TO BE
PROTECTED.
AND I WOULD PUT IT TO YOU THAT
PERHAPS THIS IS A POINT THAT
YOU WANT TO LOOK AT AND SAY
MAYBE WE NEED TO DO THIS.
SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT ON THE RECORD.
BUT I ALSO AGREE WITH CHRIS
DOWN AT THE OTHER END THAT THIS
IS I DON&apos;T BELIEVE THIS IS
DENSITY FOR DENSITY SAKE.
&gt;&gt; I BELIEVE THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT WE NEED AND SINCE THERE IS
SO MUCH PRESSURE IN ANN ARBOR,
THIS IS THE PLACE WHERE DENSITY
SHOULD HAPPEN.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S ALL I HAVE TO SAY AND
I&apos;LL BE SUPPORTING THIS.
I JUST WANTED TO RESPOND TO A
COUPLE OF THINGS.
I&apos;M NOT AGAINST THIS BECAUSE
OF THE WHO I&apos;M A STRONG
SUPPORTER OF FAIR HOUSING AND I
PUT UP WHEN THERE WAS A
CAMPAIGN A WIMPY WELCOME IN MY
BACKYARD SIGNED IN MY YARD
WHICH I KEPT THERE FOR OVER A
YEAR.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT WHO IT&apos;S THE WHAT.
&gt;&gt; AND I DO WANT AGAIN SAY I
THINK THAT THIS IS DENSITY FOR
DENSITY SAKE.
&gt;&gt; I THINK IT&apos;S PLACING OWNERS
DEMANDS ON THE NEIGHBORHOOD
CERTAINLY IN THE PARKING
DEMANDS THAT ALL THESE NEW
BEDROOMS ARE GOING TO ADD.
I&apos;VE LOST VOTES ON THIS BEFORE
AND I&apos;LL I&apos;M SURE I CAN COUNT
THE VOTES.
I&apos;LL LOSE IT AGAIN.
I DO WANT TO SAY IN RESPONSE TO
TODD THE OWNER DOES NOT HAVE A
RIGHT TO DO THIS.
IT&apos;S A NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
IT&apos;S UP TO US TO SAY WHAT&apos;S
IMPORTANT, WHAT ARE OUR VALUES
ON THIS BOARD, MY VALUES ARE
WITH THE NATURE OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I&apos;M NOT
WILLING TO SUPPORT INCREASING
DENSITY HERE THAT IS GOING TO
PLACE UNREASONABLE DEMANDS ON
THE REST OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO I&apos;M GOING TO VOTE AGAINST I
KNOW I&apos;M GOING TO BE OUTVOTED.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S OK BY I THINK A LOT
OF GREAT POINTS ARE BEING MADE
BY ALL OF MY FELLOW
COMMISSIONERS.
I WILL SAY THIS ISN&apos;T A 15
STORY HIGH RISE.
RIGHT?
LIKE IF HE IF IF YOU SAY IF
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE ANY
DENSITY THEN WHY NOT THIS I GET
NOT WANTING MULTIPLE
SKYSCRAPERS DOWNTOWN BUT THIS
IS NOT THAT THIS IS MORE
DENSITY BUT IT&apos;S NOT A 15
STOREY BUILDING NEXT TO WHERE
THESE FOLKS LIVE.
SO IN THAT SENSE I WOULD THINK
PEOPLE WHO SUPPORT ANY DENSITY
AT ALL WOULD WELCOME SOMETHING
LIKE THIS VERSUS ANOTHER
FIFTEEN STOREY BUILDING.
SO I&apos;M GOING TO I&apos;M GOING TO
CONTINUE TO VOTE YES ON THIS.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION MOTION?
I THINK WE&apos;RE READY FOR MOTION.
CHRIS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, ZIBA.
TWENTY TWO DASH 2004 THREE ZERO
NINE IS MADISON STREET
ALTERATION TO A NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THREE TO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO ALLOW
CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW TWO
STOREY ADDITION TO THE REAR
OF THE EXISTING RESIDENCE.
THE EXISTING NONCONFORMING
DUPLEX WILL INCREASE FROM TWO
BEDROOMS PER UNIT TO SIX
BEDROOMS IN EACH UNIT.
THE ADDITIONS WILL NOT ENCROACH
FURTHER INTO THE SIDE YARD
SETBACKS AND WILL MEET THE REAR
YARD SETBACK.
THE CONSTRUCTION MUST COMPLY
WITH THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU CHRIS AND A MOTION TO
SUPPORT SUPPORT.
THANK YOU CHRIS MCDANIEL.
YES, DAVE.
DIVERSITY DIVERSITY NO CHRIS
FARLEY FAIRLY YES.
TODD GRANT YES.
JULIA GOOD.
YES.
CHRIS MADIGAN.
YES I ALSO VOTE YES.
&gt;&gt; THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY TWO DASH TWO ZERO ZERO
TWO TWELVE ELEVEN WHITE STREET
AS I NOTED AT THE START OF THE
MEETING, THIS REQUEST HAS BEEN
WITHDRAWN.
HOWEVER, IF THERE IS ANYONE
FROM THE PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO
SPEAK ON THIS PETITION, PLEASE
CALL IN NOW AND RAISE YOUR HAND
AND WE WILL HEAR YOUR COMMENTS
.
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU KRISTEN WITH THAT
THE PUBLIC HEARINGS CLOSED AND
WE WILL MOVE ON.
WE HAVE NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS
SNOOPER&apos;S IT BEING APRIL.
IT&apos;S UP FOR ELECTION
OF OFFICERS AND REVIEW
OF BYLAWS.
SO I GUESS WE&apos;LL START WITH
ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
WE HAVE A CHAIRPERSON AND A
VICE CHAIR SO WE&apos;LL START WITH
CHAIRPERSON IF ANYONE IS
INTERESTED IN BEING THE
CHAIRPERSON, I&apos;M HAPPY TO GIVE
UP THE SEAT DAY I NOMINATE
CANDICE TO BE CHAIR.
I THINK SHE&apos;S DENHA STANDARD
THAT HOPEFULLY SOMEDAY I WOULD
BE ABLE TO MEET SHE JUST CHAIRS
THESE MEETINGS WITH GREAT
APLOMB AND RESPECT FOR ALL I
NOMINATE HER FOR CHAIR.
THANK YOU.
GOOD I&apos;D SECOND THAT THERE THAT
OK THANKS FOR THINGS A HECK
OF A STRONG GAVEL USE WHEN
NEEDED TO YOU KNOW SOMETIMES
YEAH I&apos;VE SEEN IT USED IN THREE
YEARS.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT YEAH I POSED THE
QUESTION CERTAINLY SO I WOULD
FOR MR. DIVERSITY&apos;S BUT I&apos;M
LOOKING HERE LITTLE SECTION SIX
POINT ONE IT LOOKS LIKE PEOPLE
ARE TERM LIMITED.
I&apos;M HAPPY WITH YOU CONTINUING
FOR THE INDEFINITE FUTURE BUT
PERHAPS THE POWERS THAT BE HAVE
A DIFFERENT OPINION LOOKING AT
PAGE FOUR, SECTION SIX POINT
ONE JOHN, DO YOU HAVE ANY
OPINION ABOUT THAT THAT YOU&apos;VE
READ A BOOK LIKE.
YEAH, I DID, YES.
BUT NOW THAT WE HAVE THE BYLAWS
RIGHT IN FRONT OF US IT&apos;S A
LITTLE BIT MORE GLARING.
SO IS ANYBODY GOING TO CARE?
I DON&apos;T THINK ANYBODY WILL
CARE.
I&apos;M PERFECTLY FINE TO CONTINUE
WITH CANDICE BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW
SOME PEOPLE ARE GOING TO GET UP
THEIR NOSES BUT I THINK THEY
DESERVE MORE GET EXAMPLE
EXHIBIT A DID VERY WHAT BUT
YOU&apos;RE NOT THE YOU KNOW THE
CHAIR YOU&apos;RE WATCHING AFTER
WHICH ARTICLE THAT YOU CITE THE
SECTION ONE PAGE TYPE OF PAGE
FIVE
.
IT&apos;S ABOUT WHAT I WAS SERVING
IN THE SAME OFFICE HERE AND
VICE OT IN THE SAME OFFICE I
MOVE THAT WE STRIKE THE SIT
THIS NO MEMBER SHALL SERVE MORE
THAN THREE CONSECUTIVE FULL
TERMS IN THE SAME OFFICE.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL SECOND THAT.
YES.
OH OK.
WELL HOLD ON WE&apos;RE NOT TO THE
REVIEW BY I DID NOT I HAVE A
QUESTION ROB WHEN IT SAYS IT
MAY BE ONE OF THE LAWYERS WOULD
KNOW BETTER BUT WHEN IT SAYS
SERVE NO MORE THAN THREE
CONSECUTIVE FULL TERMS IS A
FULL TERM.
THE ONE YEAR OR IS IT OK SO
IT&apos;S NOT THE FULL TERM AS A
MEMBER.
SO WHATEVER THE INITIAL TERM IS
YOU CAN&apos;T JUST DO YOU KNOW,
NINE YEARS IF IT&apos;S A THREE YEAR
TERM IT&apos;S JUST THE ONE YEAR
THIS IS JUST THE OFFICERS THAT
THE COMMISSIONERS IF YOU&apos;RE A
CHAIR NICE TO NEVER MIND YOU
CAN SERVE I&apos;LL JUST PULL BACK
THE QUESTION I GET WHAT YOU&apos;RE
SAYING.
&gt;&gt; YES.
YOU CAN SERVE THREE YEAR TERMS
IF YOU WANT.
NO YOU DON&apos;T WANT TO SERVE
WHERE YOU ARE.
DO YOU HAVE THE CART BEFORE THE
HORSE HERE?
YES WE HAVE WE&apos;RE ELECTING
RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT WE ARE ELECTING RIGHT
OK.
YES WELL I MOVE THAT WE
CONTINUE WITH THAT DISCUSSION.
ANY OTHER NOMINEES FOR CHAIR
IT&apos;S NOT MY BABY.
ALL RIGHT.
ALL IN FAVOR OF REELECTING
CANDICE BRAYER ME AS
CHAIRPERSON FOR ANOTHER TERM I
OWN ALL OPPOSED SAY NAY.
RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
VICE CHAIR.
&gt;&gt; I WILL NOMINATE MYSELF.
&gt;&gt; YES, I ACCEPT WHAT NOT
REALLY IS CURRENTLY THE VICE
CHAIR THE DOES ANYONE ELSE WANT
TO BE NOMINATED FOR VICE CHAIR
MAKE IT INTERESTING HAVE LIKE A
RUN ON.
ALL RIGHT.
ALL IN FAVOR OF ELECTING CHRIS
FREELY AS VICE CHAIR FOR A ONE
YEAR TERM SAY AY AY AY OPPOSED
.
CONGRATULATIONS CHRIS.
YOU HAVE BEEN REELECTED AS VICE
CHAIR.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; MOVING ON TO REVIEW
OF BYLAWS, WE DO HAVE A COPY
OF OUR CURRENT BYLAWS IN FRONT
OF US.
AS YOU WILL NOTE, THERE ARE
SOME MODIFICATIONS MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THESE
CHANGES CAME FROM THE CITY
ATTORNEY&apos;S OFFICE.
I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S ANYTHING
PROCEDURAL IT HAS TO DO WITH
REALIGNING SOME OF THE
TERMINOLOGY WITH WHAT EXISTS
ELSEWHERE THROUGHOUT THE CITY
AND KIND OF MAKING EVERYTHING
JIVE
.
OBVIOUSLY IF EVERYONE WE JUST
RECEIVED IS LATE TODAY.
SO IF EVERYONE WANTS MORE TIME
TO REVIEW THIS, WE CAN
OBVIOUSLY POSTPONE THIS AND
REVIEW THE BYLAWS AT ANOTHER
MEETING.
BUT IF THERE&apos;S ANY COMMENTS OR
DISCUSSION WE CAN PUT THAT OUT
THERE TODAY AS WELL.
DAVE, I WOULD MOVE TO TABLE
THIS TO THE NEXT MEETING TO
GIVE US ALL A CHANCE TO LOOK AT
IT REPORT THERE&apos;S A LOT OF RED
HERE AND I DEFINITELY BEFORE I
CAN COMFORTABLY VOTE ON THIS, I
DO WANT TO LOOK IN OK, I GUESS
THE QUESTION IS DO YOU WANT TO
HAVE ANY DISCUSSION TONIGHT
ABOUT ANYTHING WE ALREADY OR
OF OR THERE&apos;S ONE THING I WOULD
CHANGE TO A RED LINE AND THAT&apos;S
IN SIX POINT ONE NO MEMBER
SHALL SERVE MORE THAN THREE
CONSECUTIVE FULL TERMS IN THE
SAME OFFICE.
&gt;&gt; I FEEL LIKE THE FIRST
SENTENCE OF THIS CLAUSE HER THE
SECOND SENTENCE THE THIRD
SENTENCE THE OFFICER SHALL BE
ELECTED EACH YEAR FROM AMONG
THE VOTING MEMBERS GIVES US THE
FULL CAPABILITY TO CHANGE THOSE
POSITIONS.
IT&apos;S NOT AN AUTOCRACY.
IT&apos;S RUN BY A MAJORITY VOTE AND
I FEEL COMFORTABLE TRUSTING
FUTURE BOARDS TO MAKE WISE
DECISIONS ABOUT WHO THE CHAIR
AND VICE VICE CHAIR ARE.
SO I WOULD SUGGEST THAT THAT
BECOME SOMETHING THAT WE PUT A
RED LINE THROUGH BUT LEAVE THAT
FOR NEXT MEETING TO DECIDE.
&gt;&gt; OH YES I KNOW YOU DO YOU AND
JOHN BEFORE YOU STARTED I WILL
NOT BE HERE NEXT MONTH I DID
HAVE A CHANCE TO REVIEW THIS.
I JUST HAD ONE ADDITIONAL
COMMENT FOR YOU FOLKS TO
CONSIDER WHEN I&apos;M NOT HERE NEXT
MONTH AND IT&apos;S JUST A TINY
LITTLE ANNOYING
WE SHALL MEET
AT LEAST MONTHLY.
WE DON&apos;T BECAUSE WE COMBINE OUR
NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER MEETINGS
AS ONE AND IF ONE WERE GOING TO
BE PERHAPS OVERLY PRECISE THAT
SHOULD BE MADE CLEAR UNLESS WE
GET RID OF OURSELVES.
RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S ALL.
OK, THANK YOU CHRIS.
I JUST WANTED TO BACK UP A
SECOND AND SAY MR. DIVERSITY&apos;S
MADE A MOTION TO TABLE THIS AND
I REPORTED IT TABLE NO TO VICE
CHAIR STUFF THERE CHRIS.
I LIKE IT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE&apos;LL POSTPONE IF WE VOTE
YOU GET A VOTE.
YES, I&apos;D LIKE TO SUPPORT MR.
DEVADAS MOTION.
YES TO POSTPONE IT IS A MONTH
ENOUGH TIME.
IS EVERYONE COMFORTABLE TALKING
ABOUT IT IN JUNE I THINK I
BELIEVE SO.
I THINK SO.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT WE
ONLY HAVE A COUPLE ITEMS ON OUR
AGENDA SO IT SHOULD BE MAY.
YES SORRY I SKIPPED AHEAD MY
MEETING
.
I GUESS WHAT I ASK IS FOR
EVERYONE TO COME PREPARED WITH
ANY COMMENTS OR CHANGES SO THAT
WE CAN EASILY COMMUNICATE THAT
TO THE CITY ATTORNEY&apos;S OFFICE
BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY ANYTHING WE
SUGGEST WILL HAVE TO BE
REVIEWED BY THEM BEFORE THEN WE
CAN REVIEW AND APPROVE IT SO
I&apos;M ALL IN FAVOR OF POSTPONING
DISCUSSION AND REVIEW
OF BYLAWS, VOTING ON THE BYLAWS
OF FUTURE MEETING TO THE NEXT
MEETING TO THE NEXT MEETING,
YES.
&gt;&gt; IN MAY I I OPPOSED.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE WILL REVIEW OUR BYLAWS
AND I MAY ZIBA MEETING
COMMUNICATIONS.
WE HAVE ADDRESSED PUBLIC
COMMENT IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM
THE PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO
ADDRESS THE ZIBA I DO NOT SEE
ANYONE IN PERSON BUT IF THERE&apos;S
ANYONE REMOTELY PLEASE CALL IN
NOW PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE
YOUR HAND OR USE THE RAISED
HAND FUNCTION ON THE WEBLINK
THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU KRISTEN.
DO I HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
MOTION FROM CHRIS SUPPORT FROM
CHRIS THANK YOU ALL IN FAVOR.
I OPPOSED WE ARE ADJOURNED.
THANKS EVERYONE.
&gt;&gt;